As-salamu alaykum, wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh. How are you guys doing? We're
here with a very, very special guest.
Actually, two very, very special guests.
We've got none other than the tutorial
shooter himself. Thanks, yeah. As-salamu
alaykum, how are you doing?
s-salam, bro. I mean, I have to say,
I've um now met him in person, and uh
we've been speaking for some time on
WhatsApp, and uh his enthusiasm,
alhamdulillah, when it comes to Islam
and knowing and knowledge and practice.
Seeing you in the masjid and stuff like
that is fantastic. And someone else is a
revert and uh an important figure in
Islamic dow scene is Hamza Tzortzis
himself. How are you doing, bro? You
okay?
Well, I'm happy to uh it's a pleasure
and honor to be with both of you. Uh
there's a lot to talk about, to be
honest with you. Now it's the hot topic.
Obviously, you're all very close with
Andrew Tate.
We've both been barraged by the media
and the journalists and the press and
stuff like that about him. Um
so-called manosphere
uh you know, jargons and stuff have been
thrown around in relation to all three
of us, actually. We've all been kind of
labeled as these kind of things. So,
there's a lot to talk about, but I think
what I want to start with with you is
that
I'll speak about a little bit
about your conversion. Okay.
Because it was really it was going
around on WhatsApp uh how you converted,
but you know, I really touched all of
us, actually, cuz it went to some of our
groups, and we said, "This is the way he
articulated it. It was really powerful."
So, can you just, for those who haven't
heard it before,
what brought you to Islam? All right.
Fantastic. I just want to start off
firstly by saying it's an absolute honor
to have both of you guys in my uh
genuinely I'm honored. I do not think
I'm in any way worthy. I think there's a
lot a lot of people, not genuinely, who
put a lot more time into their their
faith and deserve to be sitting next to
you guys. So, I I'm genuinely honored,
and I genuinely believe I'm not worthy.
So, thank you. I spent a lot of hours
watching both of you guys do your thing.
I I love the um the precision and and
the way you use your words and the way
you speak to your faith with such
passion and such power. It's It was very
inspirational for me to be drawn to
Islam. So, that the dow is working even
with the person you're sitting next to.
So, thanks. Thank you guys. Thank you.
It's amazing. So, thanks. So, my path to
Islam, 15 years in the Middle East. Um
even in 2004, you know, I'd be sitting
in a a coffee shop in in Tehran or or
you know, having having dinner on a
rooftop in in in Damascus, and I'd have
people trying to get me to consider
Islam. So, it's it's not it's not a new
thing. I I believe the you become a
Muslim before you take Shahada concept
applied very strongly. And more even to
this day, and I love to speak to it, the
more I read about Islam, the more I I
say, "Hang on. I figured that out after
30 years on this planet." And here it is
in a book that was written hundreds and
hundreds of years ago. The amount of
moments I've had that the Japanese have
a term called Satori. It's where like
the break through the cloud, that aha
moment. The amount I have them daily
with Islam because I find belief systems
that I mean come That's Satori. Is there
any connection? No, I don't I don't
think so.
Yeah, it's a good catch. Yeah. Um
I
pretty much every day I have moments
where whether it's talking to brothers
like you or reading, I find belief
systems that I've learned independently
over the years or that I've I've
realized to be true already exist in
Islam and are
are spoken about and conceptualized even
clearer. That's to me every day I'm
reminded of the power in in the books
and in in the discussions. And
I think
myself, like Tate, very driven towards
truth, very driven to towards
understanding what is this human
experience about? How do I best live?
Personally, I really believe that humans
need dogma. We need guidance. You're
going to get that from faith, or you're
going to get it from culture. Stuff like
that. What a horrible place to get
guidance from. Or maybe you get it from
governments under like a communist
system. But I I think if we as humans
are all looking for some sort of
guidance as to how do I answer the big
questions in my life? How do I find a
community? How do I know I'm living on
the on the straight path, sirat
al-mustaqim?
You cannot
get a stronger
interpretation of the human experience
nor a clearer set of guidelines of dogma
as to how to live than Islam. And so me,
what I love is I thought religion was
read the Bible occasionally, go to
church once a week, maybe. Then I come
into Islam, and it's this entire system
for living, for interacting with people,
for entering somebody's house. The
amount of detail and guidance, again,
based on the principle that humans need
that to be fulfilled,
I- Islam cannot be questioned as as the
most powerful
and clear guidance for life. So,
yeah, obviously I'm quite excited. It's
not just the Red Bull. Um
the the more I read about Islam, the
more I go to the masjid, alhamdulillah,
right next to my house, the more hungry
I am to have more to make more time to
read more and to speak more. It's
you let's say you go to school and you
have to learn something, you have to
force yourself to learn it. So, my
journey in Islam is completely the
opposite. I I am working less, and I'm
saying no to money
occasionally, cuz I do like to be
successful, which which I love to talk
about. It's not a bad thing. But I'm
pushing contracts away so that I have
more time to read about Islam because I
find it so fulfilling and and
there's so much power there. There's
genuine power there that that I'm only
beginning to understand, but I can I can
see that
more and more, inshallah, throughout my
life,
faith will become
every day, ideally, more a bigger
percentage of my time and focus. That's
my current intent. Hamza, do you have a
similar experience? Thank you for that,
man. But that was beautiful the way you
articulated that, by the way, man.
And what you know what I find really
amazing is
even now your your Arabic is actually
it's really good.
I'm not sure if you guys know, but he's
learning Arabic, and it's as you could
heard there, sirat al-mustaqim is like
I'll get back to you on
He's He's actually got a good
makhraj al-huruf, you know, the
articulation and so on, yeah.
Was your experience similar?
Yes.
I think it took longer because I became
Muslim when I was 22 years old. So, I
didn't have much life experiences, and
your brain stops developing at 25.
For those who think you're Pakistani.
Yeah, I'm Greek, yeah. So, I became
Muslim 20 years ago, 2002. I was 22
years old.
October the 5th.
Alhamdulillah. October the 5th? October
the 5th, yeah. I told you, I texted you
the other day. I said, "It's your
birthday." I became Muslim on your
birthday. Oh, really? That's amazing.
Alhamdulillah.
So, so basically,
I agree with you. I think Islam can be
described as
a kind of lock, if you like, or a key.
And we're the lock, and then the key
goes into the lock and opens the door to
well-being. That's the best way to put
it.
Now, throughout my experiences, I'm 42
years old now. So, throughout my
experiences, when I read a hadith, a
narration of the Prophet Muhammad, upon
him be peace,
it makes much more sense to me now than
it did when I was maybe 22 years old.
So, I didn't have those life
experiences. So, now I'm thinking, "Oh
my god, look at the wisdom." So, even
now, I'm a speaker, I've written a book,
whatever the case may be. Even now, I'm
getting these aha moments thinking,
"This is exactly why. This is deep. This
is profound." Cuz even with Quranic
verses, they're like
they're like diamonds, right? And if you
put some light through it, it will it
will refract in different ways. And
there's like it's like an infinite
ocean, if you like. So, every verse, for
example, you can unpack so many layers
and layers of meaning. And that's why,
you know, one scholar once said, "You
don't really read the Quran. The Quran
reads you." So, you would find yourself
in the Quran. And every time you're
going through this kind of existential
life journey, you will find yourself in
there. So, if you add all those things
together, in my view, the Quran is or
Islam is a key that basic
it fits into the lock perfectly, cuz
like And we've been trying so many keys
in our lives. I was in Tibetan Buddhism,
I looked into this, that, and the other.
And you know what? The key's not
fitting. But Islam, you put Islam into
your lock, if you like, your existential
lock, your spiritual lock, it just opens
you out, and you're free to experience
life, experience the world, and you have
a good well-being in this life and in
the afterlife as well. It's very
interesting you say that. I did uh yogic
retreats. I I went to uh Dharamshala,
where the Tibetan government in exile
lives. I was a truth seeker as well. I
found some element of of guidance and of
well-being,
but we have to agree Islam is so far
superior to And I've looked into all of
the major religions.
The the the the sense of not just peace
and well-being, but knowing that you are
living the way,
if I can say it, humans are meant to
live,
Islam gives you that so clearly. It is
that your experience is very good. Well,
Islam, if you think about it, it gives
you solutions at every level. So, you
have the social, political. For example,
we have an a great economic system. It
deals with the number one economic
problem, which is not the accumulation
of wealth, it's the distribution of
wealth, right? That's the number one key
issue, right? Then you have things like,
for example, spiritual needs. Like we
have a need, we have an affinity to to
worship something. As my English
professor said, "Man cannot not
worship." You're worshiping anything.
Even the neoliberal order, what they're
worshiping is an abstract idea of
freedom. Or their their desires as well.
Their desires, their shahawat, their
blame with their desires. So, their
chase for this absolute freedom is
really their fitra, their innate
disposition chasing the divine because
only Allah is absolutely free, right?
So, all of these things. So, if you
fulfill the spiritual needs, it solves
political issues, social issues, issues
between male and female, like gender
interaction, marriage, morality. I mean,
Islam provides solutions at every single
level. And even I think nowadays, as I
spoke with the three Muslim brothers,
shout out to those guys. Amazing
brothers.
A lot of love for them.
The idea of masculinity nowadays, in the
West especially, it is genuinely being
questioned as to whether it's even a
healthy thing. And I I think we've seen
more and more a lot of men having a bit
of a crisis of, "Oh, hang on. I want to
be big and strong, but I'm being told
that that's childish, and I shouldn't do
it. I want to learn to fight, but I'm
being told that that's aggressive, and I
shouldn't do it." Islam, for me, is the
most healthy and balanced way with which
to express masculinity, to the positive
masculinity. Yes, grow a beard. Yes, be
strong. Yes, if you want to have a dog,
it has to be a guard dog, not a little
yip-yip dog.
The way The way The way Islam holds you
and almost enforces masculinity, but
also, it's your duty to look after your
family. That's right. The the prophet,
alayhi wasallam, was a salam, was very
empathetic, had high social
intelligence. So, it's To me, it's a
very rounded masculinity and a very
healthy, positive masculinity for
yourself as a man, for your family, for
society that we see within Islam. And I
think today, especially in the West,
masculinity is confused or nonexistent
or just polluted by a lot of liberal
ideas. Do you know before we get to
this, cuz I want to really open the kind
of worms, if you like, with masculinity
and gender issues, intersectional
dynamics, all that kind thing.
I wanted to speak just a little bit
about the concept of God in Islam.
Because
for me, obviously, I've I've always kind
of believed in God, being, you know,
born into a Muslim family, and so on.
What was your experiences like before
both of you? I mean, did Did you believe
in God or
And and or if Now that you do believe in
God, how has that changed your life? Cuz
I've seen you praying in the masjid, for
example, and it was really a beautiful
sight to behold because you you were
trying to pray. You you were doing it
like very well. In the masjid, many born
Muslims don't do this kind of thing now
you know, even now.
What would you say How would you speak
to that in terms of
um your concept of God, tawhid,
monotheism? Now that you've got a God to
worship, how has that changed your life?
I think it's simplified things. With as
a truth seeker who's looking for
guidance from many different places, it
can get a bit confusing. Whereas when
the beauty of tawhid, all right, this is
it. This is the truth. So, it's
definitely it's a more efficient pursuit
of truth once you've converted to Islam.
Uh in terms of my interpretation of God,
I think there's two ways to look at it.
For me, first of all, there's the
pragmatic. Now,
if I'm a human who thinks all that
matters is me and the universe revolves
around me and there there is no higher
accountability, your life is going to be
worse and your mindset and your daily
experience is going to be worse than if
you think, "Hang on, I need to be
grateful for what I've got." Gratitude.
There are so many studies now on tying
in gratitude and happiness. So,
therefore, believing in God will make
you more grateful, make you more happy.
Um if you're walking around thinking, "I
can do whatever I want. There's no
accountability. There's no akhira."
Your life is going to be a mess.
So, I think I've always known that on a
practical level, for the health, mental,
physical, of my family, for my pure you
know, the quality of my daily life,
believing in a higher force is useful
you know, on a pragmatic level. But then
if you talk about the emotional, the
inner state, I've always known that
meditation is important and I've
meditated all my life. However, I don't
really do that anymore because I have
that.
I have the masjid. I we want to talk
about God or Allah. It was all when I
moved to this house is like, "Oh, that's
cool, masjid." Cuz I like I've always
liked the call to prayer, the sound of
it. Whereas now I can walk across the
road. It is genuinely a blessing. Do you
know Do you know on this point? I mean,
this is kind of um when I had this
conversation with Jordan Peterson, I had
a conversation in the mosque, actually.
You were there. We we both had the
conversation with him. And there was one
thing that kind of went undetected or
wasn't emphasized after that
conversation with him because I
mentioned something in the Quran which
says,
you know, "Whoever
forgets me, they will have a depressed
life."
Whoever averts himself away from my
remembrance, they will have a depressed
life. That's what Allah says in the
Quran. So, I brought that to um Jordan
Peterson's attention because obviously,
him being a clinical psychologist and
probably one of the era's best ones, I
mean, many people could just ask the
question, "Why is it that he's so to say
depressed?"
True. So you so And he can take
medication.
He he took medication on this kind of
thing. So, so what I was trying to put
to his attention by being subtle and
also respectful of his own mental
condition is that the Quranic
prescription for this is actually to
worship one God.
And he agreed with it. And he said And
he actually gave a reasoning for it. And
if if one listens to what he said, he
said that is because if you direct your
attention to to one thing, it's very
similar to what you just said. If you
direct your attention to one thing
rather than your attention being
directed to something which is
multiplicitous,
and he's like doing this with his finger
as he usually does, right? He says,
"Then cuz when you when you direct your
attention to something multiplicitous,
it causes anxiety cuz you don't know how
to direct your attention."
This is grounding. This is
Exactly. This is is a rock. Yeah. And
what you said about meditation, I just
want to add to that because I was
actually looking into that. It was very
very interesting because there are many
peer-reviewed journals and molecular
molecular biology and different kinds of
things about meditation. And it's pretty
much established now that meditation
is actually good for your health and
your stress levels and all that kind of
things. But if you consider
like you talk about Buddhism and the
Vedic tradition and this kind of things
like transcendental meditation, if you
consider the fact that what What really
are the traits of transcendental
meditation or the traits of meditation
in general?
One of the key things is being present
in the moment.
They will always say that any self-help
book that you read on the issue or even
generally if you go to these kind of
They'll say be being present. The power
of now is a book that's, you know, very
famous, for example.
This is one of the prerequisites to
prayer. Yes. So, it's a
which is referred to as like being
present, knowing that Allah is hearing
you, knowing that Allah is seeing you,
knowing that Allah is with you, not
physically in the essence sense, but
Allah is with you.
Knowing that as you're praying now,
you're communicating with God that every
Nothing else matters at that moment
except for your communication with God.
That you are now submitting yourself in
the way that the creator of the heavens
and the earth wants you to submit
yourself to him. You're submitting
yourself to God in the present moment.
You are You're not thinking in a
future-centered way cuz now in the
hustle and bustle of the world around
us, we always think about the future.
And on on that on that, brother, you saw
what I did with my little book. Exactly.
So, I'll walk over it. I don't want to
interrupt you.
I'll walk over to the masjid as soon as
call to prayer Before the prayer, I'll
read my book. I I want to get really
specific with praying and make sure I'm
doing everything right. And Arabic isn't
where it will be soon, inshallah. And
then afterwards,
Thank you, brother. Thank you.
Afterwards, I'll sit there and I'll I'll
read my book as well. Then I'll come
back to my house where there's work and
there's phone calls. That That is my
place of as you said, separate from
dunya, from fitra. That That's where I
just focus on what matters. And what I
also to your point, I'd understood
through lived human experience that the
intent with which you approach a task is
key. And then in we have it the concept
of nia. Yeah. Like it's it's And so even
when we're doing ghusl or wudu, having
that nia, that intent, I'm now washing
off whether it's the stresses or or the
dirt or the the unclean energies
of which comes with, you know, lived
human experience. And I'm purifying
myself in a way before I go and
communicate with God. Just that intent
alone is going to then make the process
of prayer more powerful. These sorts of
concepts don't exist in meditation. Just
sit, think, feel relaxed. Right.
If you are going with a very clear
intent to your point, this is a special
moment. Everything's being put aside.
I'm now preparing myself to go and
communicate with with Allah subhana wa
ta'ala,
that is more powerful than any
meditation on the planet.
Absolutely. I was reading
interesting or honestly uh even with
meditation cuz I do a lot of what do you
call it, mindfulness exercises? That's
become very popular in the West, right?
I do it myself sometimes. I just want to
see what's all about. And nothing to it,
really. They They tell you to focus on
something. Because they I mean, in
Buddhism, I think they call it the
monkey mind. That your mind is going all
over the place cuz you can't It's very
difficult for 5 minutes if you tell
someone, "Just don't think about
anything."
So, they'll say focus on your breathing
and just focus on that, for example.
Even then it becomes difficult. Even
then it becomes tedious, sometimes
monotonous.
I think that cuz the prayer actually
offers you a script or when you're doing
dhikr, for example, which is remembrance
of God. And you're saying subhan Allah
or glory be to God. Alhamdulillah.
Praise and thanks be to God. Allahu
Akbar. Allah is the greatest.
It's just about as much thought as you
need to keep stay focused and to not let
your mind
go into that monkey mind state. And also
allow you to go into a state of flow to
keep your mind rested and lively at the
same time. The point is one of the best
things you can do. The point is you
you're having a relationship. Yes.
When you're doing
whether you're
meditating, whether you're doing one of
these new age spiritual techniques which
are really old, but they've basically
projected them into the modern domain.
They repackaged them.
I see this I This might be a
controversial statement. I see this as a
form of self-worship.
Because what you're doing you're doing
cuz what is spirituality? It's a
connection with the one that created you
or with at least something outside of
the universe. We could agree on that.
But this kind of secular form of
spirituality is, right? It's more It's
It's It's you're chasing a utility at a
certain particular goal. I want to feel
good. I want to feel better. And that's
why so many hippies have those spiritual
egos. Yes. Oh, thank you. This is very
deep. So, it's the point here is when
you're when you're having a relationship
with Allah,
he is al-mutakabbir, for example. He is
the He is the grandiose. He is
ar-rahman, the intensely merciful. He is
al-wadud. He the the the most loving. He
is ar-rahman, intensely merciful. He is
ar-raheem. He is the one He's He's He's
He's He's has a special mercy that he's
giving. He is al-hakeem, the wise. He
has the picture. We just got the
picture, right?
You're relating to Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. And in that process, you're
doing it in a way that is submissive,
full of love, and is directed and
intentional. This is what you describe
as khushu in a way, which which in the
Quran in the in the the chapter that
says
the believers, chapter 23, the first
line says, "Successful indeed are the
believers who pray with That's right.
with khushu, with this sense of It's
hard to translate that word in English.
It's like a sense of heartbrokenness,
a sense of humility to God, loving Allah
because worship in Islam is not just
doing an act. There's an internal and
external aspect. It means to love God,
to know God, to obey God, to be humble
before him, to submit to him, and to
direct
all your acts of worship to the divine.
So, it's a whole beautiful package. But
I just wanted to put this on the the new
Muslim journey. Before I became Muslim,
I learned how to pray.
It was such a transformative experience.
I would be in subjects. I remember my
friend Dr. Ahmed who used to train with
him in Legion Fitness, the the wrestler.
I wasn't Muslim then. I remember him
telling our Muslim friends, "You are
closest to your Lord in prostration." I
feel that every time I Wallahi. I really
feel it. And think about the symbolism
here cuz your face is like the symbol of
the ego. And you're putting it where it
belongs because you are nothing compared
to Allah subhana wa ta'ala. There is
even no comparison.
laysa kamithlihi shayun. Which doesn't
mean there is nothing like God. If you
look at the Arabic, laysa kamithlihi
shayun, there is nothing as his example.
Which is like a linguistic ploy to
emphasize even more transcendence,
right? So,
salah, prayer was everything for
everything for me cuz it helped
internalize all the kind of abstract
intellectual stuff like one God and
Quran is a miracle and so on and so
forth. But I have a quick challenge. The
challenge is this. I really believe if
every single human being comes to the
Quran with an open heart,
they would be compelled to accept this
conception of the divine. It is
intuitive, spiritual, and rational. It
satisfies the mind and it brings
tranquility to the heart. The concept of
divine oneness in in the Quran. If you
compare it to the Christian tradition or
other traditions, it's just on a on
another level. I would even go as
further to say, go to the 112th chapter
of the Quran,
which is really a summary of divine
oneness. Read it and analyze it and I'm
telling you that would be sufficient
because it's the criterion for, you
know, even if you had to sit in in in a
dark room and think about, right, who is
God and you had a sense of sincerity,
you would align yourself to the words in
the Quran. Allah is uniquely one, "Qul
Huwa Allahu Ahad", which means uniquely
one. He is independent, he is
self-subsisting, everything depends on
him.
He begets not, nor was he begotten and
there is nothing like him.
And if you even if you read the first
line, "Qul Huwa Allahu Ahad", Allah,
what does Allah mean? According to the
Arabic linguists, it's al-ilah, the
deity, the one who's worthy of worship
and love and connection. And Allah is a
such a beautiful name, it encompasses
all the names in the Quran. Which
therefore, you go into the Quran and you
start seeing words like names like
al-Wadud, the most loving, ar-Rahman,
the most merciful, al-Barr, the source
of all goodness, al-Hakeem, the the most
wise, al-Alim, the most knowing and so
on and so forth. So, I truly believe as
a challenge to anyone watching this, if
you are sincere, go to 112th chapter and
look at all of the Quran, look at God's
names and attributes. It will be
inevitable if you're sincere and you're
going to be like, this is it for me.
You're going to be like, cool. And just
to tie that up as well,
through prayer, there's that element of
of humility. You are putting your face
on the ground.
So, there's something higher than you.
The problem with this modern-day
liberal-endorsed spirituality is it's
you're not
conceptualizing the fact that you are
below.
All all these a lot of the hippies that
cuz I come from a hippie family, they've
got massive egos. They think they're
special cuz they meditate. Cuz that that
lacks that that what you just talked
about, that overarching framework with
which to carry out the meditation, if
you will. Salah has not just that
concept of you should be humble because
there's something bigger than you over
meditation. I also view it as as very
powerful programming in that you say the
same things numerous times,
they're going to imprint deeper in the
brain, right? If you say my favorite
line when every time I pray, I love it.
And
this Tate and I have discussed this
exact line, "A'udhu billahi min
ash-shaytanir rajim". I love that.
You're reminding yourself evil exists in
this world and guess what? You need to
seek
guidance and and help from something
bigger than you in order to resist evil.
In the West, they don't really think
about that. They don't walk They don't
remind themselves five times a day or
technically twice cuz when you you leave
the mosque, you know, you remind
yourself again that there are
there's many influences, shaytan or jinn
or whatever you want to call it, who are
trying to push me towards
you know, indulging in hedonism or rip
off, you know, someone in a business
deal or or be be unkind to your
neighbor.
If you don't remind yourself regularly
about the fact that shaytan exists and
especially with the new liberal order,
this religion of wokeism,
you will be pushed towards that which
feels good, that which is gratifying.
Why not do drugs? Why not have casual
sex with endless women? And but the
power of again, this the idea that's the
prayer is somehow
positive mantras or positive statements
that drill down into your mind,
you remind yourself five times a day,
no, evil exists and I'm I'm I'm aligning
with the highest force in the universe
to resist that evil. That's going to
make you a better person.
And nowadays in the West, porn endless
pornography for young men on these on
these phones. Drugs accessible. Tinder
makes casual sex accessible. What
framework do young men in particular
have with which to resist all of the
temptations and the evil of the world,
if not Islam? What what is telling them?
What what is keeping them on the
straight path other than Islam? I don't
see anything. And actually, there was a
war in guy who joined Islam recently. Uh
Lord Bear is his name. He's he's on
YouTube. At 21 years of age, he said, "I
cannot resist. I cannot resist
everything that's out there, whether
it's women or parties or hedonism or all
these things. I'm choosing Islam cuz I
know it'll make my life
it'll make me more effective as a human,
it'll make my life a lot healthier, I'll
be a lot more productive to society."
So, at 21, he he
and very very passionately took shahada
and and became Muslim because he knows
that Satan is real and he seeks guidance
with or from Allah to resist Satan. I
just it's She showed me a more powerful
reminder every day. I love it. Do you
know one thing that you him was kind of
semi-viral in itself? I mean, your your
discussion with the three Muslims became
viral. I mean, it was really good
discussion.
Um but one
kind of segment of that discussion which
was really good was um
was when you were speaking about the
Prophet Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam, you talked about Allah. I
mean, I want to ask you about from what
you've read of the Prophet Sallallahu
Alaihi Wasallam, what compelled you,
what, you know, persuaded you that this
was the model? So, that that was yeah,
that was
reading about the Prophet Allah Wasallam
was what made me
understand that Islam was was the way
and the superior choice. And I think
what it was is
a lot of people are glorified and and
looked up to nowadays. Influencers, uh
celebrities, footballers.
A person Who cares? He kicked a football
well.
Yay, congratulations.
But when you look at
the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
what area of life did he not excel in?
He didn't just lead He didn't just lead
one family, he led many. He he was, you
know, in battle, a proven leader. And
having experienced combat, that's it's
no joke, you know what I mean? You
You want to talk about stoicism and
being calm under pressure, combat will
show you that. He was successful in
business. He he
the the obstacles he went through in his
life, but he still stayed true to what
he was doing, the sacrifices he made.
Show me a better person through history
who greatly deserves that celebrity
status or that influencer status. Show
me.
And and also, I think part of the reason
why I I support
um Tate is that people who follow Tate
and watch his long-form content are
positively impacted by his messages.
Now,
I think that separates him from other
influencers in that what what positive
benefit do you get from following many
of these people who are famous for the
sake of being famous? Many many of the
YouTubers, there's no there's no benefit
to the fans who consume their content.
Now,
for me, that's it that's again, I wish
I know it's a bit impractical, but I
wish the youth of today could somehow
compare their role models or the
influencers that they consume the words
of with the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam because you cannot you cannot
debate, you cannot compare. If you want
to look up to a certain person
throughout history, I'm sorry, it's not
a footballer. It's not
it's the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi
Wasallam who did achieve so much in
every area. So, to this day, there are 2
billion people who look to him as the
most important human on the planet. Why
why are we
why are we looking at influencers? Why
are we looking at celebrities when we
have that that clear, well-documented
example of what can be achieved in life?
And also, the other piece,
without going on too much,
in a world where masculinity is
confused,
I think the the Prophet Sallallahu
Alaihi Wasallam embodied a very rounded
masculinity in that he he he would let's
be honest, he was a killer. He he killed
people in battle, but at the same time,
he showed empathy and he was
level-headed enough in battle to decide
not to kill as well. That and that's as
a former soldier, professionalism isn't
necessarily just putting rounds down,
it's having that judgment call to show
restraint. Uh so, he he proved
And also, if we talk about the way he
ran his families, he was very firm. You
know, at one point, he he went away from
his wives for 29 days, I believe it was,
and he said, "No, you know, you don't
deserve my attention." And that's right.
But at the same time, he was very
empathetic and very caring. Show me a
better example of a well-rounded man,
someone who is capable of taking life,
but at the same time is empathetic
enough and caring enough to to nurture
and and lead multiple families. This is
this is something I I love the way you
put that. Yeah. Perfect. It It reminds
me of something I've been talking about
when people say, "Oh, you know,
Hinduism is peaceful, Buddhism is
peaceful." And you have these monks in
like, you know, jungles or forests
talking about compassion and peace. I'm
thinking, with all due respect, you
don't have the power not to be
compassionate. How can you even be
merciful? You don't even have the
ability. Like, you look at the life of
the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we need to just reflect on this, right?
He was tortured, abused, boycotted,
right? He had to tie two stones to his
stomach cuz he was so hungry.
His companions were killed.
And in the Battle of Uhud, when he was
injured, he almost died.
You know, one of the companions said,
"You know, why don't you, you know, make
dua, curse them?" Do you know what he
said? Even in that moment, when he had
every right, he said, "I was not sent
here to curse or condemn. I was sent
here as a mercy. Oh Allah, forgive them
for they don't know." And that's in the
midst of battle and he was he was dead.
Hamza was mutilated, his his uncle. So,
that's one aspect. Look at the mercy and
compassion here.
Also, now look at when he took over
Mecca.
Now, he had the power.
Apart from certain exceptions, which
were part of, you know, due process and
and law, there was a general amnesty.
What What did he call the day, bro? He
called this a day of
mercy.
Not a day of revenge, when he had the
ability. So, you can't say you're
compassionate and you're nice, you
haven't been tested in battle or in
authority. And also, there's proof
there. Again, with respect to the
Tibetan monks, they got absolutely eaten
alive by China. So, it's all good to
speak compassion if you're not ready to
defend your faith and you're going to
just going to get like it's a horrible
thing to happen.
but of course, that's a full sense of
compassion because compassion doesn't
mean being passive.
Compassion means being I'm going to
stand up and be brave and I'm going to
be courageous to defend my people, which
for the Prophet included Muslims and
non-Muslims, by the way. He had a lot of
political authority. He was defending
the Jews, he was defending the
Christians, he was defending the Muslims
of his of his of of his authority. And
this is why it's very important when you
look at the Prophet of Islam in the
right context, you cannot be there's no
other way but to conclude that this man
was the best man who ever
walked this planet. I want to add
something to what you just said. I think
it's really powerful.
Sure. The point you made about mercy.
Yes. And you're absolutely right,
because like for example, if someone
were to be thrown in prison, if you and
me were to be thrown in prison right
now,
and then I say to the prison guard, I
say, "I'm being merciful to you."
It doesn't even make sense
linguistically or logically, because you
can't be merciful to someone who's got
the upper hand on you. You can only be
merciful to someone you've got the upper
hand on.
Yes. And there's actually a Hadith of
the Prophet Muhammad where
a person tried to kill him with a sword.
It's a very famous Hadith.
And then the person dropped the sword,
the Prophet carried it, and he didn't
exact revenge on him. Now, that's mercy.
Mhm. Where he could have exacted revenge
on him. I mean, but he didn't kill him.
And then that person became Muslim
because he saw what mercy looked like in
the flesh. And that's why Allah says in
the Quran,
"We have not sent you except for mercy
to mankind." What I found so amazing is
that what you said there was really
beautiful, but because it's it's that
Goldilocks zone of virtuous, impeccable
character. I mean, and what Allah says
in the Quran for example,
that you have the impeccable virtue.
Yes. I mean, what does this even mean?
It's very interesting that you're Greek,
and you've got the Nicomachean Ethics,
the book that Aristotle wrote. And he
was talking about virtue. I think
there's a lot of truth in that book
where he basically says that, you know,
you've got you've got two things, two
extremes, and you have the Goldilocks
zone. You've got rashness, and you've
got cowardice, and then you've got
bravery in the middle, for example. And
some people it's so easy for people to
exhibit one of those characteristics and
not the other, or not to get that middle
ground. So, being merciful and brave at
the same time. I mean, there's
so much evidence. I mean, imagine if for
example, Imam al-Jawziyyah mentions in
his Zad al-Ma'ad, he mentions that the
Prophet Muhammad went into 19 military
expeditions. And imagine he did that in
the span of 10 years. That's almost two
on average per year where he's putting
his own life on the line. Yes.
This and also his followers. I mean, we
were just speaking before the podcast
about Ali ibn Abi Talib. And most of it
is amazing story, cuz he he's a paragon
of bravery himself. Ali ibn Abi Talib of
course being his companion and part of
the family of the Prophet Muhammad. Yes.
And we were talking about amazing story
of this individual called Amr ibn Abi
Abd Wudd.
Amr ibn Abd Wudd, this individual who
was like, you know, from the pagan side,
seen as one of the most powerful men.
And he came to fight. And before what
would happen is that they used to have
very honorable kind of ways of fighting.
They used to have one-on-one.
So, I said, "Before we
we go all of all the armies fight each
other, we're going to have one-on-one."
It's called mubarezah or mushaqqah. So,
they used to fight each other. And this
guy who was known to be one of the most
powerful fighters,
this Amr individual,
and he was goading and emasculating, he
was trying to emasculate the Muslim
community, "Who's going to fight me?"
And Ali ibn Abi Talib,
he stood up and he said, you know, "I'm
going to. Let me do it.
Let me Let me fight. Let me fight on on
your behalf." And then he got up, and
then the Prophet said, "Ijlis, inna hu
Amr." You know, "Sit down, because this
this guy is no joke." And then and then
went back and forth, and he didn't want
to even see it. So, so they fought each
other.
And Ali ibn Abi Talib put his life on
the line. This is an example of bravery.
Because if you lose the fight, it's not
like an MMA fight or kickboxing or
boxing. It's not going to be okay, you
can live to fight another day, or you
have a rematch clause. You die. You
lose, you die. This is the highest level
of bravery where you're putting yourself
forward to a fight on one-on-one with a
sword, and the guy has got he's a
favorite,
and you you're the underdog. You're
putting yourself forward, you want to
fight this guy. So, these these are the
kinds of examples
For example,
when the arrows were coming and the
Sahaba had to hold him back. Abu Sufyan
was holding him back, and he was
marching forward, saying, "I am the
messenger of Allah. I am not a liar."
Beautiful. He was tested to the degree
where to claim that he is even a liar is
logically equivalent of claiming your
mother didn't give birth to you.
Because you have far more testimonial
evidence and contextual, psychological,
social, political evidence
to show that the person was not a liar
Yes. than the evidence that your mother
didn't actually give birth to you. I
just want to say one thing. You you guys
are so well-read.
From like PhD guys. I'm a former
soldier.
Masha Allah. I'm sitting here listening
to what you're saying. This is what I'm
going to watch the video back in half
speed so I can understand what you're
saying.
Your experience is like five PhDs. Yeah,
easy.
Yeah, well, I was going to say yeah,
junior, I am honored to have you guys in
my house. I really mean that. Thank you
so much. But you know the thing about
the person of Islam is
the bravery, but think about
as well. the power. Mhm. What I mean by
power is the psychological about it.
Like there was a famous story, cuz I I
call this how you relate to what you
create. He would optimize a person in
every situation. Do you know how hard
that is? That's leadership right there.
It's phenomenal leadership, right? I I I
try and use that. We try and instill
that in our in our organization, but
it's hard. Is that your linguistic
utterances and your behaviors, they
should be such that you intend
well-being for them more than yourself.
You love them more than yourself in that
degree. And you want you're committed to
the well-being and the guidance, and the
way you express yourself in the
particular context is to optimize that
person. For example, Fudayl ibn Umayr
was circumambulating the Kaaba. He
became normally Muslim. He wanted to
kill the Prophet Muhammad.
He was holding a dagger or something.
And the Prophet said, "You know what
you're saying to yourself?"
And he kind of like, you know, reacted.
And what did the Prophet do? He put his
hand on his heart. He said, "Ask Allah
forgiveness." And Fudayl Fudayl ibn
Umayr after that says, "After that
moment, no one was more beloved to me
than the Prophet Muhammad."
So, how he related through his body
language and his linguistic utterances
in that particular context for that
person's well-being, develop the
optimized version. And to add to this
point, just one more I want to go back
to I don't want to I don't want to talk
too much. I'm I'm loving this. Keep
going. This is amazing. I'm a very
gracious individual. I mean, I talk too
much. Anyways, my wife tells me all the
time. But I was going to say that
um one one really interesting example on
this optimization and stuff like that
and mercy as well. Yeah.
Is that there was a a person called
Julaybib. Mhm. Subhana Allah. Julaybib
was an individual who had like dwarfism,
okay, at the time of the Prophet
Muhammad.
He was
seen to have like deformed features,
structural features and stuff on the
face and on the body.
And he found it very difficult to get
married. So, the Prophet Muhammad, long
story short, he
went to a family, and he said, "I want
to get married." And they thought in the
beginning that he was talking about him
getting the Prophet getting himself
married.
But he he was intending Julaybib.
And he got him essentially got him
married to this woman of this noble
family.
And then he went out and fought.
Julaybib went out and fought in the next
expedition, and he was killed.
And he asked The Prophet asked, "Where
is Who died in this expedition?" And
they listed certain names. They didn't
mention Julaybib.
But the Prophet himself, he was in a in
a very he was in a sadden state, and he
said, "This is This man is for me, and
I'm from him." In other words, he looked
at everybody at every subsection of
society.
And he made sure that everybody was
given their right. Disabled people,
black people, women, children. It's not
just a matter Islam is a very inclusive
religion, because it's for everybody. It
really is. It really is inclusive.
The fact that the Prophet
being who he was
was able to
kind of relate and connect, and as you
mentioned, optimize a relationship with
every single person in that society. I
think it's really powerful
indication of the kind of character was.
Muhammad Ali, the the famous boxer, he
said something interesting. He says
that, "I don't look at how people deal
with me. I look at how they deal with
the waiter." Yes. Because it's it's not
about your true character. It's how you
deal with people at all levels of
society.
But we're talking about this. I I I want
to go back to
I was saying I'm sitting in the sort of
podcast I watch. I spent so many hours
watching both of you guys. I'm sitting
here again. It's I love it. It's
amazing. Obviously, I'm sitting in the
kind of podcast that we watch as well.
I was going to ask you now.
Obviously now, we've been under attack,
all three of maybe all three of us.
Actually, definitely all three of us.
Um
by people.
Cuz it's not just about connections to
Andrew Tate, and that's something of
course that Muslim people will always be
proud to be connected with every single
Muslim man, woman, or child.
We have nothing to apologize for.
The media
has been coming at us. The liberal,
woke, left-wing media
with all kinds of
things. Tell us some of the things that
you've experienced with the media. Cuz I
know they've probably been speaking to
you. And what do you think their agenda
is? What do you What do you think
they're trying to achieve? Well, the
first thing I've realized is nowadays
there is no such thing as journalistic
ethics anymore. And I'm I'm an
investigator. I was trained back in the
day. I've been
investigating in the private space for
15 years. I'm I'm capable. I I've taught
many other investigators how to do their
job. Yeah. One of the first things you
learn as an investigator is the
credibility of source. You must assess
that. And also cross-checking sources.
I've heard this from one person. I've
also heard that from another person.
Okay, it's more it's more credible. It's
more likely to be true. The amount of
mistruth myth mistruths that have been
published on Tate from big media houses,
they very easily with a little bit of
what's known as OSINT, open source
intelligence, just basically using
Google and other other search engines,
you can find out they're not be true.
Is
is it's inconceivable that journalists
are that poor at their jobs. So, the
answer then is there is an agenda. Yes.
They sit there and with their editorial
meetings, and they decide on the party
agenda, and the party agenda is we need
to burn Andrew Tate. So, find whatever
you can to burn Andrew Tate. Don't look
for truth.
I mean, any journalist who who wants to
say Tate got famous
for for saying misogynistic things, have
a look at the comments under his videos.
There are thousands, if not tens of
thousands, if not millions of positive
comments about how Tate has inspired so
many people, men and women, to say, "You
know what? I'm going to I'm going to put
aside all of this
hedonistic stuff, and I'm going to
embrace traditional gender roles." So, a
woman women all the time I've seen it in
many social settings say, "Thank you for
speaking up for women like me who want
to be feminine, who want to be a
caregiver, who want to prioritize
family. Thank you, Andrew." Women say
this to him. The media won't acknowledge
that, though, cuz their whole their
their party line is we need to burn
Andrew Tate. So, the idea that somehow
all the journalists in the world are
missing in this instance the fact that
there's positivity behind Andrew and
they're just saying, "Oh yeah, he he
rose to prominence due to saying
controversial things."
What a disgusting fallacy. And what
proves that nowadays Western journalism
is not in any way driven to find truth
then they're not practicing
any sort of thorough investigative
investigative
processes. They're just pushing their
agenda. So
seeing it firsthand even big big names
like the world leading media houses I
have zero
faith in them. I have zero belief
anymore cuz they're not they're not
reporting the news. They're pushing an
agenda. They are pure propaganda
machines at this point. I've seen it
firsthand. It's wild. It's absolutely
wild. It's very interesting.
Thank you by the way yesterday for your
for jumping on with that journalist who
was coming after Andrew Tate. Very
interesting. There was a journalist
who's they're putting forward a
documentary questioning Andrew's faith.
And they had a bunch of leading
questions. I mean for those who
they they
A leading question is
so on that day you were pretty angry,
weren't you?
You know, it was a Well, hang on.
You you're trying to push towards a
certain answer. Like cops will use that
in interviews. Um the leading questions
coming out of this individual actually
have we recorded in full form something
we learned from Vice record everything
in full form. I know you said that's a
that's a rule. One leading question
after another and the way this
individual was trying to push the the
the fallacy that
Tate somehow chose Islam because it
would benefit him
in terms of his life. I'm like, "Hang
on. First of all
when you become Muslim
there's plenty of hate that comes with
that. It's not just benefits. Secondly,
his main home base is a strongly
Orthodox country.
And they the idea that he did it for
some kind of benefit or that it was a
mis- the timing was mysterious. I first
hosted Andrew Tate in the Middle East in
2018. Even back then he was he was
meeting
Muslim brothers who took their faith
seriously. Even back then we were
talking about Islam and and the fact
that you know, the call to prayer is is
there's there's there's some power
there. This is 5 years ago.
More and more he's spending more time in
the Middle East. He decided he wanted to
live here. More and more he's spending
time around other The idea that it's
somehow Oh, what a what a coincidence
that he converted. Of course he
converted. He was a truth seeker as
well. He speaks about the devil all the
time. If you are a consciously he he
believes
Andrew Tate believes to the point where
he will put his own welfare at risk that
he is leading the fight against Shaitan.
Even a year ago, 2 years ago he'd say
that. Of course he's going to find Islam
cuz again when you pray you every time
you conceptualize evil is out there
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala please help me
in my fight against Shaitan. So this
journalist trying to say that he was
somehow
Thank you, sir. There we go. People know
this address.
Um that's why I got the dog, actually.
Well-trained guard dog. Uh the the idea
that journalists are trying to question
his faith which for for Muslims as I
understand it is absolutely haram. It's
a terrible thing to do. I find it so
disgusting and I I'd like to release
that video. The way this individual And
the the other thing he was trying to say
that
Andrew had chosen Islam cuz it would
help him with business in the Middle
East. I'm sorry.
Andrew's got enough clout.
He doesn't need to be Muslim to have
people wanting to partner with him. It's
It's genuinely disgusting.
It's genuinely disgusting. And then one
of the questions was, "Oh, but why
doesn't he show more of his his faith?"
I was like, "Hang on."
You First of all you say he's using
Islam just for personal benefit.
But then you're questioning why he
doesn't show his faith. It's cuz for him
his faith is a private thing. He didn't
want to film Shahada. He didn't want to
He's He views like family for example
was very private for him. Yeah, he's
since gone loud.
Uh
I love Andrew Tate.
Read stuff to you, inshallah. Um that
wasn't planned, by the way.
Yeah, we Okay, let's hope they move on.
If not, I might need to go out and have
a chat. Um
But yeah, it's just my my point here is
I find it absolutely disgusting the way
journalists will come after Tate even
questioning a man's faith with zero
grounds, with zero reason based on the
fact that they don't like what he says
on the internet.
It's disgusting. What world are we in
that you can call yourself a journalist
and and pretend that you're a
professional when you are questioning a
man's faith, one of the most deep and
important things in anyone's life based
on tweets that you don't like? Or you
know, based on again information from
non-credible sources. So journalists, my
goodness, absolute scum filth. That's
how I've learned that from human
experience. You could take the take the
door swing both ways. You could just say
to me, "You know, I don't think you're
liberal enough."
That's true. Sure.
Maybe you're liberal because you're
coward. You have really strong
conservative beliefs, but you stay
liberal cuz you want to ex- stay in your
job. Isn't that true?
many people claim to be feminist. Maybe
you're you're maybe you're a feminist
because
The door swings both ways. You want to
You just challenge them.
It it is getting quite low if they have
to start challenging someone's faith
today. Horrible. And apparently this
whole documentary is based on that.
Disgusting. Where are people's ethics
nowadays? And and the amount of people
who are experts on Andrew Tate having
never met him
or having met him once and you know,
like it's
Again, the amount of experts out there
who are
who
positioning with with you know,
authority to speak about Andrew Tate.
I'm sorry. I've been around the man. You
know what I mean?
Also, I'm a family man. Back in the day
I held very high-level top secret
clearances. I've held very senior
corporate roles. I'm a person who can
judge character. Indeed, I've been
trained to assess, to profile, to
interact with people.
If Andrew Tate was in any way involved
in such things or even capable of such
things, you think I'd have him in my
house? You think I'd go out and throw
away my privacy which I kind of liked to
speak openly. Now I speak openly more
and more cuz of the positive feedback
I'm getting. The initial prompt for me
to go loud was to support him and his
character.
A man of my standing, of my experience,
of my ability to read people
I am the expert on Andrew Tate. I've
been around it. Now yes, as I've said
numerous times, I'm not objective. I
care for the man like a brother. I love
him. You know what I mean?
But I am credible.
And I would not be sitting here arguing
for him if he was in any way involved in
any of this Exactly. Bias doesn't always
mean
For example, falsity. Cuz some people
say, "Well, you've got a bias because
you You can have a bias towards the
truth."
Everyone has a bias of some sort. Yes,
you can have the bias towards truth plus
you can have a mathematical bias. The
only problem with it is so I have a
mathematical bias. I believe 2 + 2 = 4.
Doesn't mean that that is false.
And the other thing I want to add is
that a lot of the views that they they
come out with for example,
when they when you ask them to cuz this
is very famous now. I mean you you ask
I've done this myself. A lot of the
journalists come to me and they I say,
"Give me an example
of something that he said that" and
they'll say, "Well, he said this and
that about men and women."
Whatever they quote for the most part, I
can bring you a rabbi who said the same
thing. Ooh.
I can bring you an imam who said the
same thing, maybe. I can even bring you
an Islamic scholar. I can bring you a
Christian priest. You would never go
especially to a rabbi for example and
say, "Well
your faith says this. You're this
because you're scared." You label them
an anti-Semite.
You might not even do it with a Muslim
guy who's who's just left for example
Muslim all his life. You might do it
with a Muslim guy frankly because you
throw Islam under the bus, no problem.
But there are certain communities of
people you wouldn't actually question
like that. For example, how would an
African go Would you go to an African
village of a tribe who believe very
similar things to Andrew Tate and say,
"Well, you
believe such and such and such thing."
No, cuz you're afraid to be
seen as an anti-black orientalist
effectively, a colonial person.
But the exact same thing's being uttered
by a person who actually is I think from
He's half black, by the way.
But that's that's beside the point. He's
He's saying exactly the same thing as a
a tribe's leader would say in Ghana.
Exactly the same thing. He's just maybe
putting it in a different way, in a
different language, with different um
expressions. And also part of the reason
why he's so popular the majority of
people agree with him. They just don't
have
or they have too much to lose should
they say it publicly. That's why he's so
popular. You said something yesterday
speaking to the journalist that he's
speaking to age-old truths, to basic
biological facts that the vast majority
of the world agree with. They're just
not in a position to be able to go and
speak loudly cuz that religion of
wokeism, that cancellation machine would
cost them too dearly should they do so.
Yeah, I mean we've got ample examples of
this. For example, when
Obama went to to Kenya, his supposed
home country whatever
ethnic country of origin.
And the the issue of LGBT came about.
And you should see how conflicted they
are speaking on the issue.
Cuz on the one hand they were being
colonial and imposing culture on the
Africans. And they were so tentative and
scared on the issue. But when it comes
to Andrew Tate, now let's just go for it
because why? He's one of us.
He's a Westerner. He's He's got enough
white skin for us to take it.
That's not really a fair judgment. So in
other words, certain people
they get a pass because
it's effectively your reputation that
you're trying to keep. Yeah, I mean we
have to also understand that this is and
I don't mean this in a bad way. This is
bigger than Andrew Tate. It's bigger
than the individual. Andrew Tate has
become a symbol of challenging kind of
the liberal world order from that
perspective. And we have to frame it
that way as well because at the end of
the day it's what they don't say that
matters. Why aren't they putting these
famous
Satanic rappers under the microscope as
well?
You know, people Have you seen some of
the rap today and the videos? Why aren't
you And they have a huge negative
influence on youth, right?
The narrative that's coming from Andrew
Tate and others is be a family man, be
authoritative, take care of your family.
Be disciplined. Be accountable,
traditional values. But you have these
rappers. Some of them they don't even
have agenda now. They're like God knows
what they are these days. And they're
like literally Have you seen some of the
videos? They're devil worshipers. What's
that guy's name? Forgot the guy's name
now. Very very famous. Why aren't you
putting them under the microscope?
They're doing far more damage.
So the thing is we have to see from an
ideological perspective as well. This is
an ideological battle. 100% 100% it
really is. And that's that's why I say
5 years ago when I met Tate and I heard
him speaking about the fact that the
West is headed for decay and and what he
called a failed society because the way
man and woman interact has been
interrupted. This is assault on family
unit, assault on masculinity. It's an
assault on femininity as well. Women who
want to be submissive and care for their
husband and and make the home a
beautiful, you know, healing place,
they're getting shamed as well. It's a
crisis of masculinity and femininity.
Tate was saying clearly that interrupts
the way kids are are born and raised and
then at the macro level it interrupts
the way society is formed. That's why
we're a failed to
5 years ago I said to him first first
trip we'd gone on together,
I see that you are you have an important
role to play in in terms of masculinity,
in terms of humanity. I'll support you
however I can. And here we are. He's
become a cultural icon who is leading
the charge as I see it genuinely. I'm
not just saying this with hyperbole. I
believe this literally. I believe that
he is a leading figure in countering the
effect of Shaitan in the world. I mean I
don't know if that's you know you view
that as an overstatement. No, in the in
the culture wars. I mean who else is
speaking up like this? Think about it.
Right now he's what he's saying as we
said before.
First of all, let's look at feminism.
Because I think one cannot understand
the phenomenon of Andrew Tate without
understanding from a feminist, right?
Feminism is the second wave of it been
going on from the 1960s, right?
Most of the studies that have ever been
done
on women's health cuz you said it right.
You said femininity, right? Is being
under attack. I agree with that
wholeheartedly because if you look at
most of the studies, the biggest study
ever to be done was Blancheflower and
Oswald.
And it was a longitudinal study to be
done from 1960s to the to 1990. I think
it was 20 to 30 years.
And they surveyed women in America and
Britain. And they asked them after the
obviously the the legislative changes by
equal acts and all those kind of thing
and obviously then more in the workplace
than ever before after the sexual
revolution in 1960s and so on.
What their mental health was like.
The vast majority
of women, 80 more than 80%,
actually said that their mental health
was worse.
It's because you're trying to make a
fish fly and make a bird swim. That's
what you're effectively trying to do. So
when the feminist movement tried to make
the fish fish fly and the bird swim, all
you got was
sickened animals. Yes. You know,
at the end of the day. And in this case
we have as you said the intersectional
dynamics are completely disrupted. So
what he's doing is he's he's a
corrective. He's a symbol of correction.
Or because the thing is it's not just
Andrew Tate. It's something to people.
Is that this was happening before Andrew
Tate became famous. People had already
found it. If you look at the service
the service that were done in Germany,
most women in the in the early 2000s
were saying they no longer want to
identify as as feminists for example.
Mhm. That's right. I remember that
backlash. Do you know what I mean?
There's the studies that have been done.
There's a study called the paradox of
female happiness. Something like same
thing. Why is it that women the more
rights they give so-called rights,
the more they go into the workplace, why
is it that we're seeing this
double burden on them and the
psychological breakdown of it and so on.
not realistic. The idea that a woman can
manage a career and be an attentive
mother and be an engaged lover for her
husband is not real. Yes. It's just an
unreasonable expectation being placed on
women. And if I can just jump in on
that, we can look at feminism from
various frames. We can look at for
example statistics that show the more
liberal and feminist a country is, the
higher the divorce rate, the higher
amount of women living on
antidepressants. You could argue there's
not causation, it's just correlation. I
think it's causation. Uh we could look
at the the the concept that
through lived experience that and I
tried to voice this on that vice
documentary. I think I think I did
fairly well.
The women who I've come across and I've
been to 90 countries. I've interacted
with everyone at every different level
of of social uh status. I I speak
numerous languages. I I I like to really
experience a culture. The women who I
see who are most fulfilled in life are
those who are adhering to traditional
gender norms. They have a husband they
can respect. They prioritize. They still
have work of course, but they prioritize
the family and caring for their man and
and their
you know their loved ones over chasing a
you know corporate status. And then on
the flip side, the men who I see are
most fulfilled, again let's look at it
in terms of you talked about biology. We
we are driven by testosterone as men on
a very base level. That that is to
fornicate and and to fight to conquer.
We need that mission focus. The men who
I see are the most fulfilled have that
daily those daily wins that conquest
whether it's through sport or through
business or through that that that
brotherhood of building empires
together. Men who are on their mission
are the most fulfilled. And we look at
women, oxytocin,
estrogen, the need for safety, to nest,
to raise a family, to care. The women
who are doing those things are the
happiest. Is it really that difficult to
think perhaps we should live in a in
accordance to not all of human history,
but also the the actual chemicals the
that are running through our blood? Yes.
Is that is it I don't know if chemicals
is the right word or endorphins or
it's it's it's the hormones that are in
our blood. Perhaps if we live true to
those we might be fulfilled. Why is that
equation so challenging and so
difficult? Why are those maths so
complex for the liberals to be able to
do? I think a lot of them now have just
denied a very basic thing of the Quran.
The male and the female.
You know that the male is not like the
female. That's a verse in the Quran.
It's a simple verse. I'm glad I'm
sitting in Dubai saying things like
that. You'd get cancelled saying that in
London. Do you know what I mean? That's
a verse not a simple verse. The male is
not it's not saying one is better than
the other.
It's not saying like intrinsically a man
is better than a woman. It's not saying
this. It's just saying they're not
they're like. And what what we're saying
is that
nowadays we're even questioning this
reality.
We're questioning is a man a man and a
woman a woman. So when society has
become this sick and this deluded, then
it's no wonder we're talking about the
neurotransmitters or the hormones
whatever maybe in the body that we're
now denying the existence of that. I
think that's one thing.
Economically what you're saying is
cogent as well because you've got the
law of comparative advantage.
You know when someone's got one
specialism and the other one's got
another specialism. Once again it's we
don't want to put fish in water
in the sky and then and then and and and
and fish in
tell them to fly. So the point of this
is that
once once you respect that order,
that hierarchy of God is the most is the
most high. And then you have you know, a
managerial hierarchy. You have the
husband telling yes the woman what to
do.
For example. And yes, he she has to be
submissive to him and obey him. But also
he has more he has the as Tate says he
has the authority, but he also has the
responsibility. You cannot be a man who
wants to tell a woman what to do unless
you've really got it together and you
can look after her, look after your
children, look after her parents for
example. With that authority to say no
this is how it is in the household is is
a caregiving and leading and and
protecting and providing responsibility.
Women I know,
they love that idea. They want to be
looked after. They want to be protected.
The feminists all who you know and these
liberal women saying where have all the
good men gone?
The good men are adhering to traditional
values.
The very good men take faith, ideally
something as strong as Islam very
seriously so they have an accountability
to a higher force. Your liberal men who
have no sense of higher accountability,
nothing keeping keeping them disciplined
or on the straight path and and think
that oh everything should be equal. I
actually heard something the other day.
Apparently in the west it's
women have asked for flowers from their
their partner and the man has returned
with oh why don't you buy me flowers?
That's the state we're in. This idea
that again it's been forgotten. The
Quran says men and women are not the
same. We have equal rights sure in terms
of everyone being able to live safely
and and and you know, go about their
their daily life, but this idea that
we're somehow the same is ruining the
world. And that it ties into one of the
first things Tate said to me that that's
why the west is failed and that's why
I'm sitting here supporting you.
It's impressive because treating two
different things the same is oppressive.
Mhm. If two things are different and
you're treating them the same.
That's why our our soul said that. He
said that. He said that um
yeah, you cannot treat different things
equally. Yes. It's it's a very simple
statement. And and you know what? It's
not just the liberal world order, it's
the post-modern
world order now. Post-modernism which
basically says any form of hierarchy is
a source of injustice and oppression.
And they say there is no objective
method to come to an objective truth.
That's how they will deny biology.
They'll deny truth. They'll deny like
you had some crazy person saying like 2
+ 2 is not really four, right? Yeah. He
says that till he's in a building which
applies an architect which applies to
Absolutely. Absolutely. Put 2 + 2
together makes four. And this is the
problem. Now what's really funny is they
say there is no objective method to have
an objective truth, but they believe in
the objective truth that there are
oppressive hierarchies. It's a
contradiction.
It is a total contradiction.
That's what the left specialize in. And
I want to I want to drop something here
that I read just the other day. I went
oh wow, so relevant. I was reading a
book written hundreds of years ago and
it said that at the lowest level of
hell, I forget forgot the name for that
level,
that's where the hypocrites Yeah, it's
the Quran. And what is the one tendency
we see in liberals above everything
else?
Hypocrisy.
So nowadays whenever I hear a liberal
ranting at me or these haters or these
journalists, I'm I'm just thinking in my
head
you're going to Jahannam and you're
taking the you know, you're taking the
elevator to the seventh floor. You're
going direct my friend. It's that's
where they belong. They are hypocrites
and they're polluting the world. I I
think sometimes we over philosophize it
and we give it a some some kind of
intellectual credit credence. I think
it's psychological. These people are
Shahawat. They are people of blameworthy
desires. Literally it's the
it is the worship of self. Cuz Allah
says in the Quran have you not seen the
one who takes his own desires as his
Lord? Cuz liberalism is the primacy of
the individual, the self, individualism.
Post-modernism is the primacy of the
individual to an excessive degree,
right?
So this is really what they're doing is
moving away from the worship of of Allah
to the worship of yourself.
Psychologically I believe it's that. I
want to do whatever I want to do. I
don't care about hierarchy. I don't care
about structures. I don't even care
about truth. It's just me me me.
Whatever I identify it's true. This is
literally defined as self-worship.
Have you not seen the one who takes his
own desires as his Lord? So we should
just expose it for that as well. You are
a a auto auto deity. Yeah, you are
worshipping yourself. And how's that
working out for you? Yeah, not it's not
working out very well as well. That's
the litmus test, right? I mean to show
them that Allah is the one worthy of
worship. And once you do that, they see
head on the floor, they'll elevate you.
I think what we started off by talking
about when you talk about the meditative
kind of school of thought that are out
there and so on. So kind of
want to talk about things that the human
being should be doing.
What should be closest to his nature.
And the the premise of what we're saying
is
that in fact the closer human being is
to his or her nature, the the more
happy, more content, more purposeful,
meaningful their lives will be. And
fulfilled. Can we let's use the I mean
happiness is a mood. And you also you
can get happiness from hedonism. I I I
think happiness is overrated. Yes.
Fulfillment, knowing you're living a
virtuous life. That steady slow burn of
you know what, I'm happy with No.
I'm I'm Content. I'm content and I'm
grateful with with the way I'm living
out my life.
a good it's a good it's a good
clarification because in fact
the the word the Quran uses is not
happiness.
The word the Quran uses is tamaneena or
the idea of
tranquility. Yes. Yes. Solace. Having
solace cuz it says
that my inner group that certainly with
the remembrance of God
do hearts find rest. It's a restful
state. It's a tranquil state. It's a
solace that someone gets. It's not
necessarily happiness. In fact, I looked
at the whole Quran
and just thought about thinking about
where does the Quran use the word
happiness?
With a human being in this dunya. And
it's
I think it's only in the Quran.
Uh
So it's chapter 10 of the Quran Surah
Surah Yunus where it says that say it's
with the
with the with the father or the grace of
God and his mercy
I either
it's better I either Quran is better
than whatever
they amass.
And they will be happy with it. So Quran
is the only thing that
the word faraha in the Quran that means
happiness there. But generally speaking
you're absolutely right because
happiness is a state and it's not the
end goal for the human condition in the
Quran. You can get happiness from drugs.
You can get happiness from drugs. You
cannot get tranquility and fulfillment
and heart at truly at rest. Exactly. And
that's that is what we're looking for.
And but even if we don't get this I mean
let's let's even put that to the side
and say if human being is in the most
miserable state possible
if they're still doing their purpose
if they're still doing what they should
be doing and worshipping God
then they're doing the appropriate
action.
There's true meaning. Meaning transcends
suffering. If you like Victor Frankl he
wrote a book Man's ultimate search for
meaning. And he was a Holocaust survivor
and he made a beautiful point he said
you can transcend your suffering with
meaning. If you stand in the possibility
that the meaning that you're giving this
particular suffering is not the only
meaning you can give a more empowering
meaning you would transcend your
suffering. And the beautiful thing about
the Quran the Quran gives you Allah's
meaning for your suffering for your life
experience. And once you attach Allah's
meaning you would transcend the life's
obstacles. Like the Prophet Muhammad
when his son passed away Ibrahim passed
away.
How does Allah respond? With Surah
Al-Kawthar. It's not even a divine
condolences bro. It's indeed you have
been given Al-Kawthar the abundance.
Therefore
pray to your Lord and sacrifice. He
changed the prophetic mindset from a
maybe a depressive state because his son
passed away to one of gratitude. And if
you're in a state of gratitude you can't
be in any other state. And he was
reminding the Prophet Muhammad
I am giving you and I have given you the
abundance in this life and in the
hereafter specifically which we know is
the river in paradise but in these other
things as well. So if you give the
divine meaning to your life experiences
you would transcend those experiences.
And and going back to the point because
it's so number one is God.
But number two is this idea of
femininity versus masculinity being
suppressed.
I was just speaking to the boys before
uh this podcast and saying that in the
modern age there's never been an age I
don't think in human history
where a man's natural proclivity to
manifest
ingrained masculine imbued naturally
born masculinity has ever been
suppressed to this level. Like you were
saying
physicality now is toxic.
If you want to fight which is
if you want to protect if you want to
fight that's toxic. If you want to be
polygynous if you want to have multiple
which is a proclivity which a woman
doesn't have.
The male sex drive is undoubtedly
differentiated from the female sex
drive. And it's not just the sex drive
it's
there are so many physiological aspects.
If you want to manifest this you're
ashamed in society. And that's why a lot
of men now are listening to this is why
Andrew Tate is popular is because this
is what we're trying to say he's he's
expressing in a normal and eloquent
language what they believe in.
What they've been suppressed what
they've been ashamed for all their
lives. And that's why he's it's a
phenomena. It's not just a person
they're talking about here.
In the Muslim space and outside of the
Muslim space we're finding
a lot of confusion in relationships.
Now without you know mentioning your
past past sins or something like this or
anything you do have experience
obviously
um in this field.
What do you think is going wrong now?
First of all in terms of we talked about
like the gender issues and stuff like
that but
is it just that people have become
spoiled? Have women become spoiled for
example? Have men become spoiled? Have
we
have we lost what it means to have
meaningful relationships in the modern
era? What's going on?
Okay. Well I think the the primary
problem with modern day relationships is
is if we're going to I think it's men's
fault. Really? Are you 100%? 100% I
think men have forgotten how to
to lead. I think men have whether it's
their fault or society's programming
they've forgotten what it means to be a
man who is worthy of submission from a
woman. And I I think again the idea of
accountability in the same way a lot of
women are saying where have all the good
men gone a lot of men are saying where
have all the good women gone. If you
build yourself into a a man with enough
capability and value and and experience
you will be able to find good women.
Well I can trust them. They exist they
of course they do. But I I I think
the the the phenomena of of the red pill
I was you know I went through a nine
year marriage that was very much blue
pill. So I was doing what society told
me. I was essentially getting exploited
and walked over you know it's
and indeed so were all the men in my
social circles. Like a lot of people
think golf is about golf. No it's not
it's about men whinging about how
miserable they are with their wives.
That's what golf is.
I was always wondering why people play
that sport. No it's just a
or you see even a sport
it's somewhere you can have private
chats to complain about when was the
last time you you had you know a
fulfilling bedroom moment with with with
the woman that you're paying everything
for. That that pretty much sums up golf.
So so I think as a result of the the
imbalance of of traditional gender norms
most most marriages in the west are very
confused and they're it's a competition.
It's not man does man woman does woman
they work together as a team which isn't
where fulfillment is. It's we're going
to compete and we're all going to try
and you know do what the other one
should do and everyone should do
everything 50/50.
It doesn't work. And I'd I'd I'd love to
see any couple living
true to that modern day version of a
relationship who are having strong
intimacy.
Show me a liberal couple where
everything's 50/50. Everyone's doing 50%
of the housework. Everyone's you know
cutting the bill in half 50%. Who are
still passionately in love with each
other and having that strong physical
passion after a couple years. You know
what you're saying is so interesting. Do
you know why?
I was reading a book I think I mentioned
it before we started this podcast A
Billion Wicked Thoughts which talks
about like the sexual preferences of
people. And in fact
they've tabulated it. They've got like
these online things where people watch
some pornography and all kinds of
anecdotal experiences and questions and
all that kind of thing men and women.
And one thing is for sure
what women are interested in is
dominating alpha type male figures
sexually. In fact
the question is Good luck.
No I mean because for for people that
will challenge you they'll say actually
what you're talking about is
not it's not research based it's not
just something some anecdote or some
opinion some take or some actually it's
fact what he's saying is fact. Because
when you find like for example 50 Shades
of Grey one of these you know most
popular book book of the last decade you
know you see what I mean it's what the
most leadership is women.
You'll find that women are actually
interested mostly
the scenario the fantasy is about a man
that's domineering. Why is it not a blue
haired
transgender What did you say again? I
mean yani why is it not blue haired
Why is it where you put in your sexual
fantasy a blue haired transgender? Why
doesn't he become the the the star of 50
Shades of Grey? I love it so much I'm
sweating right now.
No but the reason that's the question.
The reason is because what he's saying
seems to be the most reasonable
reason is that there is a biological
proclivity and natural inclination for a
woman to be dominated in a certain
manner sexually and otherwise.
to break that down if I can. Please do.
Okay. So I think there's there's
Cuz I think you could offer insights we
all need to hear. I mean again I don't
want to say anything inappropriate but
in terms of intimacy
as we know from 50 Shades of Grey women
want a dominant man. Now I've I've often
thought and
again without going into specifics 50
Shades of Grey involves a lot of BDSM
type stuff. A lot of women are into that
sort of thing. Now you have to ask
yourself why would a woman be into that
sort of thing? I believe it's because
if they are confronted with and they
experience the strength and the power of
the man they're getting intimate with
they therefore feel this is a strong man
he can protect me.
They also think ah he has that alpha
seed that's then going to give me the
strong kids so I'm going to have the the
healthy kids again who can go on and and
protect me and continue the lineage. So
they're on a deep psychological level
the the urge if you will to be dominated
or to be with a dominant man ties into
both self preservation survival cuz
again okay nowadays we have police women
have jobs. Back in the day
as a woman a couple hundred years ago if
you if you weren't protected by a man
you wouldn't survive. Okay can I ask a
question this Now my curious side's
coming out.
You know
one of the categories that women really
like is lesbian
pornography for example even
heterosexual women. What do you think
the reason because that then someone
will say this is kind of like counter to
what you're saying. I mean you're saying
BDSM okay that's one category that
they're interested in.
But one category another category even
heterosexual women is lesbian
category and some people have said that
is the reason why is because
of the exact opposite reason of what
you're mentioning which is that in fact
a woman knows what a woman wants. She
likes the sensual aspect, she likes the
romantic aspect. She likes to be you
know, seduced slowly and these kinds of
things.
How would you respond to that? How does
that fit in with what you're saying? I
think it ties in the fact that women are
objectively more beautiful than men.
I I think the the most beautiful
feminine form
will get a lot more attention from both
sexes than the most beautiful masculine
form walking down the street. I think I
I I'd put it as simple as that. That's
interesting.
Yeah, I I I just think women women women
are if we break it down, women are
throughout history, their beauty has
been spoken about. Yes. That that that's
been an overarching like standout in
myths and in legends, you know, the the
princess is always beautiful.
Whereas in myths and in legends,
look, he might have nice flowing hair as
per some of the Greek classics, but
his defining feature isn't his beauty,
it's his capability, it's his character.
It's if anything throughout throughout
the you know, the the various myths it's
it's his dominance. Mhm. So, I think
they are the type of I think women are
valued more throughout history for
beauty and femininity and grace. Men are
valued for capability and dominance and
character. So, that that's why I put
that into that. Yeah, cuz you this is
interesting because one of the one of
the categories that women were not
interested in
is humiliating men. Like men might be
interested in that. I can speak for
Funny funny enough, I mean one of the
chapters of this book was that that men
like uh yeah
cuckolding or what do they call it? Can
we let's please let's not go there.
Please let's not
But no no I mean it's just But you know
what? on the on the on the lesbian
issue. Don't you think it's what they
were doing that is also important?
Because a lot of people sometimes Can we
not go Can we not go there? No no no no
no no no you know not indeed I'm not
saying in detail, but I'm saying it may
not be the objectivity of a female
beauty, but it could be that there were
certain sexual practices that in maybe
certain cultures they don't like to do.
Now, but don't forget that cuz this is
even in the West Okay, fair enough.
Yeah. I I think women are more sensual
as well, they're more in touch with
emotion, they're more empathetic.
A woman as a sexual object is going to
be more attentive gives generally
speaking to a partner's needs than a
man. And I can see why some women would
be drawn to the idea of other women as a
result. That that just logically makes
sense to me. Um but if we can if we can
move away from that if you
Um
I just going back to the relationships
and to your question. I I think
Well, first of all, a woman's sexuality
is that is a a chapter of books. A man's
sexuality is visual stimulation and
friction. Like we are much simpler as
creatures. So, if we want to discuss
female sexuality, that that could be a
series of podcasts.
But I think to to look at it from you
know, the the sort of holistic level, I
think the reason why relationships are
especially in the West so upside down is
they are
to use the the term, they are very blue
pill. It's societal driven. And as per
society's norms, hey, happy wife, happy
life. You should do everything you can
to make your wife happy. The problem is
when you set the dynamic where you are
inferior to her and you're doing
everything to appease her, she will no
longer respect you, she'll become
ungrateful, and we know where that
relationship ends. I think it's up to a
man to understand some basic facts when
he gets into a relationship. Number one,
every woman has the propensity to be
either an amazing, caring, submissive
wife or an ungrateful, overbearing, rude
wife. And it comes down to you as the
man and the frame you set as to which
path she takes. Now, if we look at
things as I said earlier in terms of
basic survival,
hundreds of years ago a woman needed to
take from a man, take his protection,
take his provisioning, take his
resources in order to survive. They
couldn't go out hunting by themselves,
you know, men men did that. We can agree
on that. So, if we flash forward to
today, again, even though women don't
need men's resources and they don't need
men's protection, on the deep hindbrain
level, the reptilian brain level, they
are still
biologically and throughout human
history programmed to take from a man.
So, what does that mean? Yes, give to
your woman. Yes, be caring. But watch
out for that ingratitude creeping in.
And indeed the Quran speaks about the
fact that we don't even need to gender
it. The majority of people in in
hell in Jahannam are ungrateful.
And women again, as a function of their
need to survive throughout history
have a a proclivity have a tendency to
become ungrateful if not managed. And I
see a lot of wealthy guys, their
relationship starts off nice. Five years
later,
he hasn't he hasn't held frame. All of a
sudden she's incredibly ungrateful.
He'll give her an 80,000 like $20,000
80,000 dirham bag and she's like uh
It it it does it doesn't register
anymore. And that's why as a man, you
need to understand that these tendencies
exist and you need to set the frame very
carefully. Now, what I've seen again
sort of standard relationship again in
the West,
woman sees strong man.
Woman says, "Ah, I'm going to lock this
man down. He's attractive to all sorts
of different women, but I want him to
only be with me.
I I love the fact that he's highly
desirable, but I want him to only be
with me." It's a bit strange and that's
this guy has a solution for that of
course. He is strong and he is fit and
he's busy. I don't want him to do that.
I'm going to chip away at his his his
mates. He hasn't he hasn't got enough
time for his friends anymore, he's going
to look after me. I don't want him going
out to the gym, he needs to be around
here. The red pill theory sums it up
pretty well. They call it the
beetatization by a thousand concessions.
And that's where you see the power
balance change and all of a sudden the
man is basically doing what the woman
says, but the problem here is Yes. she
resents him. And then the entire
relationship the the sex fades,
everything. I If if you do not lead as
the man and if you do not reject that
modern societal programming, hold
masculine frame, we'll talk about how to
do that, your relationship will end up
such that your woman is resenting you
and she is ungrateful.
The flip side is if you start a
relationship and I think even in the
Muslim community I I know that we're
we're encouraged to marry young and I
see the virtue in that.
However, I do know the most successful
relationships I know are second
marriages. When a man's gone through,
made mistakes and then got another
marriage, that's where I came from. Um
and indeed red pill theory helped me get
out of that very toxic marriage and go
and create you know, more healthy
understanding of how to interact with
women.
But if if at the start of the
relationship you say, and you can even
write it down, "This is what I expect of
you
and also this is what I'll deliver." And
the woman writes, "This is what I expect
of you and this is what I'll deliver." I
understand Islam does that as well.
That that setting that expectation is
very clearly at the start and then
maintaining it throughout is is the key
for a man to hold frame. And also I know
people might object to this term, but
it's almost like there's a bit of a
training phase. And and you can say both
partners are doing it. You've said your
expectations are X Y Z.
I've said my expectations are X Y Z. On
this day or at this moment you are not
fulfilling those expectations. As a man,
I think you will then again as as the
one who holds the masculine frame of the
household,
you will need to continually, especially
at the start of the relationship, catch
behavior that has not met expectations
and find a way to respond to that that
should we say trains or or or teaches or
encourages your partner to act in a way
that is healthy for the relationship.
The number one tool that we have is to
take away our attention. And indeed the
prophet
he went away for 29 days cuz he said,
"You know what? You're not treating me
right, I'm going to take my attention
away." Now, this is where the problem of
men's sexual thirst comes in. A lot of I
I do believe so. Set the expectations.
If your wife does not
treat you with respect or does not stick
to the agreements as to how you should
interact in a healthy manner, withdraw
yourself. But then men will say, "Oh,
but I need sex." That's right. And my
question to that is, where is that
thirst coming from? Is it a physical
thirst or is it a mental thirst? If if
it's a physical thirst, you mean to tell
me as a man you cannot control your your
urges
and feel yourself get more pumped up as
the days go on. I like holding onto that
sexual energy. I'm I'm a harder in the
gym, you know, I'm training I'm more
focused at work.
Keeping your
your sexual energy and not you know,
pushing it out every day makes you more
driven, more focused, more masculine cuz
it's power, it's energy, right?
So, okay, so the physical thirst, grow
up.
You do not need a woman to satiate you
physically. You do not need to express
you don't need to come every day. Let
yourself build up and and focus on your
mission instead. And but then we look at
the mental thirst and this is where most
men their lives absolutely are are
disrupted.
The mental thirst is
my mom didn't give me the validation I
want. And now and now in the modern Say
again? Or that maybe as well. Typically
speaking, when it comes to interactions
with wives, that will stem from your
childhood issues that you had with your
mom with with the feminine. You know,
the main feminine uh influence in your
life as you're growing up. A lot of men
they didn't get the whether it was the
attention or the validation they wanted
from their mom, so they're chasing it in
women. Or there's the whole "Hey, if I
if I can impress a woman, therefore I'm
worthy."
This is the petty stuff, but again,
culture imbues that in a man. Every I
remember
just the other day I put on Spotify
actually this is before Shabbat. I put
on Spotify, it was a gym playlist. After
five songs I had to turn it off cuz
every single song was "Oh, baby, I'm
lost without you. Oh, darling, give me
another chance." In the gym playlist. I
can't even go to the gym without being
fed this mental thirst. It's it's being
programmed into men, so I think
If men need to get over Okay, control
your physical thirst, channel it in
other areas.
Get over the mental thirst, examine why
you are seeking validation from women.
And therefore, you do not have a woman's
ability to give you sex over you.
Personally, in in my current
relationships, any issues, I'll hold
frame such that even a raised eyebrow, I
feel disrespected. We've agreed at the
start of the relationship that respect
is very important to me. I'm not going
to be intimate with you for 72 hours. I
will instill I will I will enact a sex
fast Yes.
because I do not have any I physical
thirst All right, I'll go to the gym
more. I'll do more push-ups. Mental
thirst, I do not get validation from
women, I get validation from higher
places, from brotherhood, from work. If
you can if you can free yourself from
that "Oh, but I need to be a good person
so I can have sex."
You are then in a much better position
to hold frame. And again, if you do not
hold frame, after five years she'll
become ungrateful, the sex the passion
will be gone, she will not respect you.
A woman is happiest when she is with a
man she can look up to and respect and
think that man is my hero. That is when
a woman is happiest. A man is happiest
when he is focused on his mission and
he's holding firm and he's respected.
That that line, a man must feel
respected before he can feel loved, is
very important. And and for me,
I did I I said at the start of the
relation relationships I I will say I
have said
I will not tolerate any ingratitude. I
will not tolerate any disrespect. Even a
facial expression that shows disrespect,
you there will there will be there will
be re I don't even like to use the word
consequence. It sounds like you're
punishing. I'm not punishing. I'm
teaching you if you want to have a
loving intimate relationship, I expect
certain things per the agreement at the
start. And so every man should have his
self-control and his self-awareness
together such that he can say, "We're
not going to be intimate now." And it's
the woman who's left thinking, "Oh."
That's the dynamic you want. The healthy
dynamic is when a woman wants intimacy
more than a man.
And you can set that up if you're if you
get rid of your thirst. You learn to
channel your your physical thirst and
and rele release your mental thirst.
And this is golden information, by the
way. It's fantastic. And especially I
think with Muslim men, I'll be honest. I
mean,
a Superdrug dynamic. Superdrug is a, you
know, pharmacy in England, but they also
do studies and stuff. They done a study
on
sexual body counts of the average person
at the age of 21. Okay. And in England,
this the average number for a male is
9.5 at the age of 21. Okay. Now, in the
Muslim seems like a lot. It seems like a
lot, but if you if you say the Muslim
community, I'd probably bet it's either
zero or one
at the maximum.
Now, what that does for a Muslim man,
and this is why I want to give you kind
of advice here because
Muslim men don't have the experience of
a lot of women.
And pound for pound comparative to
their kind of, you know, co- co-equal or
whatever. Maybe maybe it's different cuz
you know, you read about something, you
know, you guys are in a sense have an
advantage, but in a sense have a
disadvantage. You can tell me, but We we
we learn from mistakes.
Yes.
If you marry young, perhaps you don't.
No, cuz yeah, that's number one. You
you're usually with one woman and a lot
of them are with one woman all their
lives. And for the most part, the Muslim
woman is not going to is going to be
very very against the idea of polygamy.
And she might even weaponize her
children. She might even do this. She
might even engage in some of those
actions that the majority population are
doing, right? Not all of them, to be
fair, but a lot of them will do this
kind of thing.
As such, what you're talking about is
sexual thirst,
the neediness for the woman. Yeah. The
setting expectations clearly at at the
start. Yeah, all of that kind of thing
kind of fades away. And the
a lot of men actually said
Like honestly, what I used to say is
I find it I know the Quran says cuz what
you're saying is in line with the Quran.
Leave them in the bed. That's stage two
in chapter 4 verse 34.
And
That those who leave their wives
sexually sexual fast whatever, but it's
not just sexual fast. Sometimes you just
It's attention fast. Yeah, yeah. You
you've just done something that's
disrespected me as your man. I work very
hard to provide this reality.
Exactly. As you've just just
disrespected me and I want you to learn
not to disrespect me.
We're not going to you know, and it's
not passive aggressive. You just you
just withdraw your attention. And Islam
allows you up to four months for that.
People don't even know that. It's It's
called Iela. Well, you've drawn your red
lines. No, it's a lot of which means
that if you don't do Of course because
What I mean is like so for example, if
obviously you get
I'll be honest like someone raise their
eyebrow and then you go four months.
That would be an extreme reaction, but
I'm saying for instance, if she done
something pretty pretty significant,
let's say, yeah. Disrespected your
mother, disrespected you in front of
people, whatever it may be, right?
And you decide, "I'm not going to be
here for the next 90 days."
That's actually within your right
Islamically speaking. For example, what
you just mentioned here is a Islamic
right. It's in the Quran itself. I think
two days is enough, but I mean not 90 if
you wanted to. No, no, it's up to it's
up to four months. The Quran saying
don't go over four months, for example.
Yeah, you have you have you have this
the maximum. And the Prophet did it with
29 days. I mean, that's one thing. The
other thing which I found so powerful
about what you said cuz it's so strongly
correlates with the Sira.
There's one thing people don't realize
is that the Prophet actually gave all of
nine wives at the same time. He gave
them some called Khia.
And it's in the Quran in kuntunna
turidna al-hayat al-dunya. It's chapter
33 verse
In kuntunna turidna al-hayat al-dunya wa
zinataha fata'ala fata'alin wa
mata'akunnahu asrihkunnahu sarahan
jamila. If you want cuz they were
complaining about the living situation
because
the Prophet for a point in time lived in
impoverished conditions. His wife said
that he's only eating dates and drinking
water.
And this is the kind of thing you had.
So they were complaining about the
living situation.
So then
the situation took place where he
separated from them for a long time. And
then this verse came down which
If this is a this is a conditional that
is set to the Prophet's wives.
If you want the adornment of this life
or this life and its adornment, then
come and I'll let you go.
Now, what people don't realize is that
this was actually binding.
If any one of his nine wives at any
point said, "I don't want to be with you
anymore." it would have been effective.
And they would not have been, you know,
punished in a punitive way. In other
words, he actually the Quran and the
Prophet gave them
gave them the right to leave if they
wanted to. Can I just jump in there?
Just keep your flow going. That is
incredible cuz one of the important
parts of keeping that masculine frame
for the overall health of the
relationship is
as the man, you should always be ready
to say, "That we're done." You have to.
You cannot be thirsty. No, "Okay, you
disrespected me, but I'm going to keep
you next to me." No. You cross certain
lines, we're finished. There's no hard
feelings. I'm not going to be nasty.
I'll take care of you financially per
the contract we've engaged in, but
e- even
like
no matter how much you love a woman, if
she crosses certain lines and doesn't
respond to your request for her not to
stop them, you need to be okay to walk
away. And that's where a lot of men make
mistakes. They're thirsty for sex.
They're thirsty for approval. They're
"Oh, she disrespected me. Oh, but she"
The amount of guys I've been in in very
high-end dinners and their own wives
have disrespected them
openly in front of a group of people.
I'm like, "Bro, it's your house. Ask her
to leave."
Cuz men forget that they have the right
to to request respectful treatment from
their partner. And if you don't get
that, you need to be ready to walk away
instantly. But again, men are so thirsty
nowadays again cuz of that blue pill
programming that they just they they
don't know how to hold frame. And what
you're saying is is that it's ironic
that that's the case because that
actually puts them off the man. And I
was actually reading a study
two days ago, three days ago. I don't
know why I was reading the study.
It's I can give you the name of it. I've
got it in my phone, but it's it's
basically the top reasons why people get
divorced.
And and the and the people the of the
study mentioned
12 reasons. One of them was extreme
clinginess.
Neediness, thirst. Yeah, yeah. They they
referred to as clinginess. And I said
that it's one of the reasons why people
get divorced because when a man is
clingy, it's one of the worst
characteristics. It shows all the wrong
signs to the woman. Yes.
And that's why I think polygamy in a
sense can actually save marriages.
Before we get to polygamy, I just want
to make two points very quickly. Yeah,
the first point is the reference that
you made about the ingratitude in hell.
It was the Hadith, not the Quran.
Okay, thank you. Yeah, the second thing
that's important as well is and this is
my
is that this conversation shows that we
don't need
a movement outside of Islam to teach us
how to have a good healthy marriage. We
don't need red pill or blue pill or
green pill. We just need Islam and the
Prophet Muhammad Sallallahu Can't we say
that Islam is the green pill? Yeah, you
could say that. I like that phrase.
There's a really nice brother in Canada
who's got this green pill thing going on
and he he shows from the Quran and the
Sunnah how to be
have prophetic masculinity.
This green pill is not a problem.
My worry is I don't want people watching
this now going all the way to the red
pill movement cuz there may be some good
things, but there's other blame with the
Red pill can help you see what's wrong
in your relationship, but it has zero
answers. Good. And just like we're
talking about the fact that it's the
idea of the sex fast or the idea of how
to how to have a a clear expectation
relationship, that's Islamic. 100%
Islamic. And this is Sorry, Peel et al.
This is the name of the study where they
they refer to as partner pursuit,
basically. Yeah, if you keep pursuing So
it's really good you made that
clarification that Islam has a solution
to this to this dynamic between the male
and the female. So you were talking
about polygamy, but
sometimes, you know, it because it's
such an unexplored option for Western
Muslim people,
polygamy.
I mean,
but for the majority of the population,
it's completely unexplored.
And people a man would be happier to get
a divorce than he would to do polygamy
because
the woman has set the conditions for
that. If you do this, this this is going
to happen.
See, I don't I really don't understand
that in that
if a woman truly loves her man and truly
trusts him and truly wants him to be
happy, can she not understand that he
has a natural strong urge for sexual
variety Yes. at a very deep level and
that there is a safe, respectful, halal
way with which to pursue that if he is
at the standing where he is able to
provide for multiple families, not just
financially. That's the easy part, but
in terms of time, care, empathy, family
leadership. I don't understand why it's
so hard for for women to understand that
I mean, look, I didn't choose to need
sexual variety or to want it so badly.
It's in me. And if anything, if I could
turn off the need for sexual variety,
wouldn't be easier?
If you could have one woman and
genuinely feel, "You know what? This is
enough for me." wouldn't that make all
of our lives easier? However, the
reality is
if you only are intimate with one woman
as a man, over time, even if she's the
best woman in the world, you will start
to feel the need for something else. And
also, as we know, if you do have
multiple women in a halal way, you will
have higher testosterone. You will put
more energy into into Oh, I've got
multiple families to look after. I need
to be the man. Like to me, it's just
it's natural. I don't know why it's
demonized as a What you're saying is
backed by science, backed by psychology.
The the this probably the one of the
biggest studies that have been done by
Masters and Johnson.
And they did actually compare the sex
life of a man and a woman. And they
referred to the sex life in the way that
you have just have, which is not just a
frequency of sexual experience, is the
variety of it. Because I was thinking
about this. I was speaking to the guys
about this as well. Don't ask me why I
keep saying guys because you guys
But I was I was speaking because you
know, in a sense, a Muslim man, for
example, we're talking about the
community,
maybe a Jewish man as well, a lot of
religious people, the same thing would
apply.
He may have more sex than the average
Western person. Why? Because at least if
he's got one person, he's having sex
with her maybe every day or every other
day or three times a week or whatever it
may be, right? Depending on the age and
the experience.
But he doesn't have as much
variety.
So, in in in one way,
the average Western man, although maybe
he's got like three sexual partners in
the year, maybe there's a long distance
between one and the next one because he
has to find her in the club or whatever
it is. I remember my friend used to tell
me, "Maybe if you're not the few
high-level guy, you know, high-value or
whatever it may be, but for the for the
average guy, he's going to have to work
his game in order to get one woman and
then a second and then a third, and
there may be long periods of drought in
between, for example." The Muslim man
has sex with the same woman.
In one way, this guy is actually
frustrated. In another way, this other
guy is actually frustrated. The average
Muslim man is actually frustrated on one
level.
And the average, let's say, Western man
is actually frustrated on another level.
Yes. One's variety, one's access. The
first person
Basically. And And so, the I I feel like
this is an important point because what
you're talking about We didn't feel We
didn't choose to feel like this. There
is evidence to show that this the male
sex drive, the man wants to have more
sex and with more different kind of
women.
I just want to say something on that. If
you have your relationship dynamic set
in the way that is optimal, your woman
will want to have sex with you more than
you want to have with her.
Without question. Without question. And
that's why all these men who are like,
"Ah, you know, my woman won't is not
okay with me having multiple or, you
know, she's not attracted to me."
If you really do develop yourself as a
man in all areas of life, if you if you
chase excellence, and then you start a
relationship with very clear guidelines
and you hold that frame, your woman will
want you more than you want to her. Now,
if you've set the dynamic up in a way
and you haven't held frame, I don't
think you can re-engineer it. You you
can't negotiate real pure passion. It's
not, you know, you can Hey, you should
want me more. Ah, but it doesn't work
like that. But if you have really
pursued excellence as a man
and to the point where you you can look
after multiple families, your wives will
want you a lot more than you can handle.
I have a question.
This might be a little bit off topic,
but still for the sake of, you know, we
don't get the opportunity to do this. I
mean, you you guys all were one group,
you, Andrew, and Tristan, all of you
guys. Mhm.
Uh from my understanding, and this might
be flawed or correct me, you all did
have polygynous relationships, you know,
at one point before becoming Muslim. Is
this first of all is this correct or
Uh after I got divorced, I I was
Oh, man.
Yeah.
I was not I was not lacking in in
variety, let's put it that way.
But was it Were they romantic
relationships? Oh, yeah, definitely. So,
so they were romantic and obviously
intimate at the same time.
How Okay, to to ask it bluntly, because
these these women are not incentivized
by the religious incentive, let's say.
How did you do it? I did Okay, so I'm
glad you asked this.
did they ever object?
No, no, I'm glad you asked this. So,
when a man in the West is dating
multiple women,
unless they these women are, you know, a
bit
you know, deranged, I'd say.
Each one Say he's Say he has three
concurrent girlfriends. Each one of
these girlfriends is hoping and in some
way believing she will one day become
his one girlfriend. And this is why I
strongly believe that men as well should
not engage in dating culture. We know
Look, if a woman sleeps with a lot of
lot of men, that's damaging for the
woman. We know that. I don't think it's
necessarily damaging for the man to
sleep with a lot of women, but it is a
waste of potential. Again, that that
energy, you can put it into more
meaningful things.
The more you go out and sleep with a
woman who at some point is thinking,
"I know he has other girls, but I still
have a chance to lock him down." If you
don't have the intent to take care of a
woman, I do not believe you should sleep
with her cuz I think you are damaging
her potential future fulfillment in
relationship. And that's why numerous
times I've
Cuz I I mean, look, whether it's
Instagram or whatever, I've had good
women, beautiful women show an interest
in me. I do not engage cuz I know I
don't have any intent to take care of
you, and if you hook up with me, I'm
going to ruin your life. You have a
certain lifestyle. You have a certain
level of intensity in the bedroom.
thing to be honest. But But it's a
genuine I don't want to If I'm going to
be intimate with someone, I don't want
to ruin their lives to to the point
where once I'm I'm done with you, you
then need to go out and find a good man
in a world where there aren't many good
men, and you'll always be bitter.
Now that I don't engage with her, maybe
she'll go and find a man she can have a
happy family with. So, all these men,
these high-level men who are just
chewing through the girls and don't have
any intention to take care of them in in
a halal fashion, I think it's very
damaging for the women, and hence the
men shouldn't be doing it. They should
take some responsibility. There are
studies to this effect. I I looked at
the study of casual sex on both men and
women.
And women that do engage in casual sex,
they are harmed on a variety of
different metrics.
And so, therefore, it's unethical of the
men to have sex with lots of women. I
really think it's It's I remember seeing
a scholar a while ago, very outspoken
scholar saying, "If you want to have sex
with multiple women, you should take
care of them. If you want to lie with
her, you should marry her." I
wholeheartedly agree with that because
anything else is unethical. Can I run
something past you? You've made a very
profound point about if a woman really
loves her man,
then this polygamy issue shouldn't be a
problem. Loves and trusts. Yeah. So, I I
have a theory, right? There's a
Korean-born German philosopher. He's
seen as like one of the
greatest philosophers of our era. His
name is Byung-Chul
Han. He wrote the book the
the agony of Eros and the disappearance
of other, I think.
He's got a beautiful theory and he links
it to the liberal world order, which
links to the stuff we talk about and
everything else, right?
So, the liberal world order creates this
sense of narcissism. We don't know how
to love anyone.
What happens is to love someone, you
have to be committed to the well-being
and guidance of that particular person,
the other in their context. But because
we're in a narcissistic society, there
is a disappearance of the other. So, now
what you do because we have this not
collective narcissism, we're now
projecting ourselves on the other, and
we're not loving the other in the
individuality and context, we're just
loving ourselves.
So, our womenfolk, generally speaking,
happens to the menfolk as well in the
context of polygamy, our womenfolk are
part of this secular neoliberal world
order. Where really love is not loving
the other in their context, the man who
has needs to have another wife, another
sexual partner. They've dismissed that
other, that individual, that context,
and they've just projected themselves,
and they end up just loving themselves.
So, really, not And this is quite
controversial, right? Not allowing your
husband within the halal context with
all the stuff in place to have another
wife, "He's just going to be jealous and
this and the other." is actually a
manifestation of not knowing how to
love.
And I'd love to tie into add on to that.
Yeah, wait. I'd love Those words, if
said to a woman, you'd think would help
her
be open to polygyny, and that's zero.
Yeah, yeah, for sure. Cuz this So, how
do you do that? I I got So,
in in theory, if I was to, I'd approach
it such that,
again, men
Again, we're being very simplified here,
but we can sit there logically and say,
"You know what? That makes sense, so it
should be so." A woman could agree
logically, but she won't feel in her
heart that it should be so.
Any man who wants his, you know, in an
Islamic setting, who wants his woman to
be open to polygyny, if she's not, it's
on you to build that trust, to show that
you're capable enough, to let her know
that she will always be looked after and
loved, and she'll always be your your
your first wife, your queen, so to
speak. The The responsibility is on you
on the man to do better,
not to try and convince her or winge at
her or argue with her to be open to
polygyny. Does that make sense?
Yes. And and
This is enrolling in your behavior.
It's a prophetic trait. For the Prophet
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, he wanted
the companions to shave their heads.
They had They were a bit upset about the
Treaty of Hudaybiyyah. They didn't see
the kind of maximum wisdom behind it.
And the Prophet went to his wife, Umm
Salama, radiyallahu anha, and he wanted
advice, and she advised him, "If you
want them to shave their heads, you
shave your head." So, he shaved his
head, and automatically they followed.
This is a prophetic principle of
enrolling, not necessarily controlling.
So, you enroll people in your behavior.
That's what I'm getting from you. Like,
you need to be in a state of being that
would basically result in what you want,
basically. And And I think it it might
take time. I think you will probably
have to be with one wife for long enough
for her to trust you before you can then
say,
"I would like to pursue this urge that I
have, which ties into my fulfillment."
But some people say the opposite. Some
people say if you want to get it done,
you got to get her used to it from the
beginning.
I think it would be good I don't I don't
think it would be good to do You're like
a kid in the candy shop. I I Okay, to
that, again, what did we talk about? We
talked about going into a relationship
with clear expectations. If you at some
point aim to have your life in order
such that you can have multiple wives, I
think you should tell any woman who
comes to you for potential marriage that
that's your intention. And if you said
that from the start, she'll probably
say, "Oh, I don't want that." You can
say, "Well,
if we're going to go ahead, you need to
be open to that when the time is right
and when you trust me." And again, if
she says, "Oh, no, I don't want that."
Well, then we're not getting married
then. This is what I mean by this very
clear expectations at the start and then
holding frame. Even if she trusts you,
even if you said at the outset from the
start, "I'm going to have multiple wives
at some point." You as a man are still
You're still going to face a very
drawn-out challenge to reassure her that
she's safe. I don't think women are
necessarily jealous about the idea of
you being intimate with someone else.
They are afraid, and rightly so, that
you may fall out of love with them and
focus more on someone else. So, you need
to show her over time you're not the
sort of guy who's thirsty. You're not
going to get caught up on some Oh, look,
there's there's a attractive pair of
whatever there. You are loyal to your
first wife, and you were enough of a man
with enough resources and leadership and
time to take care of another family.
But it's The onus is on you as a man to
to show her over time that you're not
going to get caught up in something
else. You'll never love her less. That's
the key thing. I I don't think women are
naturally that jealous about the idea of
a man being
purely sexually with another woman. And
a good example is a lot of times a woman
will find out that her her husband, for
example, in the West on a business trip
had sex with a prostitute. That That
hurts less than if she finds out he's
had an emotional affair with his
secretary. What he's saying is true
because I actually read a study to that
effect. You've been reading a lot of
studies lately.
No, honestly, I cuz I was reading a book
called Miseducation of the Negro by
James Tooley. Very good book on this
subject. And they'd done a jealousy
study. I think it was in Japan.
And they checked out the patterns of
jealousy for males and females. And what
he says is actually true. What they
found the majority of participants,
males, actually were the opposite. If
they find that their woman loves another
man, according to the study,
they're less
jealous about it, quote unquote, than a
woman. But the opposite is true for the
woman. So, in other words, the intimacy
for the woman is
is less problematic than the love. If
she knows that he loves a woman more
than he loves her or he in addition to
loving her,
it's more problematic than him being
intimate with another man like you just
said because it's
uh whatever reason, you know what I
mean? But that The The
The The reason it is clear again, women
need on a very deep Excuse me, very deep
level to feel protected, to feel cared
for because again, a couple of 100 years
ago, if a man fell out of love with
them, they could die.
They relied on a man's protection and
provision provision to stay alive. And
in the deep dark brain, they still
correlate with that man not love My man
doesn't love me anymore. Oops, I could
die. You know, in the reptilian brain.
So, it's up to you as a man to be of
such virtuous character and such
stoicism and such clarity of mind that
I could never fall out of love with you
because of something new. This is simply
going to make me more fulfilled as a
man. You will not see a difference in in
our intimacy and our love. And if
anything,
and
a friend told me that when there are
multiple wives,
the fact that there is a few days where
he's not around and then he's back
brings a bit more spice into the
relationship and actually is the natural
order of things anyway. If we look at
the fact that men are designed to
to spread their seed and that we can
we can do our part, the the insemination
multiple times a day. It takes 9 months
for a woman to do her part. On an animal
level, we are wired for polygyny. Women
are wired to be loyal to one man who
protects, provides, and so on. If a
woman goes and has a bunch of sexual
partners, again, speaking in the
historical concept, and paternity isn't
known, she's at risk of getting kicked
out of the tribe and no one will look
after her. Like it's it's deep brain
stuff. It's very simple. Another thing
which is a very simple thing a friend of
mine just said to me the other day is
that if if I was caught a friend of mine
shows how often we've been speaking
about this matter outside the off the
cameras.
If women did put If women tried to be
equal to men in this regard, men would
be killing each other in the streets.
At the end of the day, as we've just
said, the jealousy on the intimacy issue
is so high for men that it would lead to
murder. Imagine if you know that woman
has done something
with another man. It would lead to
murder. The same is not true with women
cuz women don't show aggressiveness in
the same way. They show aggressiveness
in a passive manner. There's studies to
that effect.
But what I found really interesting is
we were speaking
I was I was having a discussion with few
students of knowledge and so on about We
tried to bring all them
the instances where the prophet had an
argument with his wives,
any of his wives.
And it was so interesting because there
are times where the prophet
like Let me give you one example, right?
I was reading this hadith and I was
thinking about it and really pondering
over it.
There was one particular hadith of the
prophet left a prisoner of war in the
house where Aisha was.
And he left.
And he said, you know, look after this
prisoner of war. He left and he came
back.
And she was with her friends that were
females.
And the prisoner of war ran away.
So, he angered to her said, "Cut off
Allah's hand."
Which is like an Arabic expression is
"May Allah cut your hand."
And he tried to look for the prisoner of
war. They found the prisoner of war.
They came back and she was looking at
her hands because she took it literally.
So, she was worried her hands would be
cut. He said, "Have you ability? Have
you become Are you mad?" Like this is
just like an expression.
And then he said to her, which is very
interesting, because it shows the other
side of the prophet's character as well.
He's He said to her, "I get angry like
I get angry like men get angry."
And then he also said to her that
whoever I've made dua against, whoever
I've made supplication against, that
make it into basically a blessing.
So, in other words, you can see the
prophet Muhammad
he wasn't
it wasn't a false macho-ness. It was all
action.
And he wasn't afraid to be concessionary
with his wives.
You know, he was concessionary with all
of them. You know, um And I like also,
if you don't mind, was the way he sought
advice, especially from Aisha. Yeah. I
don't know what to say after I say
Aisha. What do I say?
And I'll do a lot of honor. Rajiallahu
Rajiallahu Rajiallahu Anha Anha. May
Allah be pleased with her.
Thank you again for that. Thank you very
much.
Thank you, man. It's I I do love the
Arabic language. It's a beautiful
language. I will get there. The way you
guys quote
scriptures, you know, hadith, Quran with
such ease.
Give me a couple years. Inshallah. Like
I I I I view the I reckon you do it in 6
months. I see the work but the work
that's gone in that is incredible, man.
That's so I don't have status goals or
money goals. I I have I want to be able
to quote the Quran with ease goals. Like
I'm really working towards that.
The Quran says
Allah has made the Quran easy for
mankind. So, who's going to remember it?
And so, it's
Allah has facilitated it. You have you
got kids doing it. And the reason why is
cuz Allah has some miracle in itself how
Allah done that.
It's It's so much intelligence. There's
so much
so much depth. You can spend your whole
life learning it and still learn
nothing. It's amazing. But to come back
to our point, the way the prophet, from
what I've read, the prophet
viewed relationships in the way that
is very different to relationships in
the West. A lot of the time in dating
culture or in these these transactional
narcissistic relationships we see in the
West, it's it's competitive or it's, you
know,
there's no genuine collaboration. For
me, as a man who's leading the family,
your the health and the beauty and the
fulfillment of your woman,
I think is is the biggest status that
you can have. Because if your woman is
genuinely fulfilled, she feels safe,
she's comfortable being feminine, she
has work that she finds satisfying but
doesn't detract from her being able to
look after you and the family, she she
gets more beautiful, more healthy every
day. That to me is a sign of a healthy
relationship. And I I I can see that
in the Islamic context, we view our wife
is essentially our wives are our assets.
They're genuinely our assets. We can
seek advice from them. They can create a
safe space for us. Of course, you don't
mean you own them. You don't own them.
You own them like
Okay, in in in in a partnership fashion.
And I think the West has forgotten that.
A lot of the time men are trying to,
you know, oh, I was with this woman and
then I got sick of her and then this is
If you really love a woman and you're
putting all this energy into finding
harmony and and setting expectations and
learning to work together and holding
frame, every time you hold frame with
the woman, you are showing her what you
expect for the healthy relationship.
You're putting years of work.
She should become more healthy, more
fulfilled, more beautiful, more
submissive over time. That should be the
goal. I really see a lot of dating
culture, a lot of like high-status guys,
it's almost like they're
they're viewing women as as as just
amusement or as a as a pastime. If you
love a woman, her well-being
is is your is an extension of your
well-being. And and you 100% should view
it as such that
every every time you hold frame, every
time you
talk about your
your expectations, every time you go on
a sex fast, that's to make your
relationship healthier, to then make her
happier, healthier, more submissive,
more beautiful. And and so, guys, I I I
see so many guys that are chasing status
in terms of I've got a big car car
collection or I've got nice watches.
Your biggest status as a man is the
health and happiness and fulfillment and
submissiveness and femininity and
loyalty of your wife.
That's the real flex. The prophet said,
"The best amongst you are those who are
the best to their wives." See, this is
what I mean. And this is what I mean by
the green pill. It it has it all there
written. It's I'm I'm really I'm really
inspired, touched, moved, and inspired
by your articulation of these things.
And it just it's encompassed by that
prophetic statement.
Success is relationships. It's all about
relationships. They said They tried to
track what it is. It wasn't money. It
wasn't health. The number one thing was
your relationships.
With men and women. It's not about the
boat, it's about who's on the boat.
Your number one relationship is your
relationship with Allah.
After that, really is your relationship
with your spouse. Cuz it's that
relationship is not broken in the
afterlife.
Yeah, it's actually a really
very powerful relationship. So, what you
said about,
you know, the green pill, these are
prophetic values, prophetic qualities
that we want our We're Essentially, the
prophetic quality is that you're
committed to the well-being and the
goodness of all people. In the context
of marriage, you're committed to the
well-being and the goodness of your
spouse, your wife. And it's not a
competition. It's it's collaborative
like The West is so broken. It's
complementary as you say. Yeah, there it
is. That's the word. That's the magic.
Yeah. And that's what the Quran states.
I mean,
that you are a garment for them and they
are a garment for you.
That's the way it's written. It's a
beautiful imagery as well. It's a
garment for And then the prophet said,
"Certainly, men are the twin halves of
of women." In other words, it is it's
more of a collaborative relationship.
It's complementary. What does Allah say
about the marriage itself? That it's
it's for sakina. Allah says in the Quran
What's sakina? Sakina is tranquility.
It's for you to dwell dwell in
tranquility. And Allah has put rahma,
mercy, and mawaddah, love in your hearts
as well. So, that's the kind of kind of
the maqsad, the
One thing that he said which is really
powerful. And I was actually thinking
about this ayah the other day so tell
that.
But, before I mention the ayah, I want
to mention what he said because he
mentioned that you've got to be willing
to walk away.
And the reason why the blue pill
mentality, whatever you want to call it,
is actually there. In my opinion, one of
the one of the reasons is because people
are now investing all of their emotional
energy into romantic relationships and
they think that if that romantic
relationship ends, their life ends.
It it will destroy their entire life.
The Prophet Muhammad Sorry, Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala says in the Quran
uh in kana abaa'ukum wa abna'ukum and
basically some ayah says that if your
fathers and your your sons and wealth
that you have gathered and wealth that
you've accumulated and so on and so
forth. It's like long list.
Is ahabb ilaykum. It's more beloved to
you than Allah and the messenger and
jihad in his way.
So, wait until the judgment of Allah
comes to you.
So, in other words, love
if it's directed to Allah and struggling
in the path of Allah and these kind of
things as the number one
and everything else is secondary because
Allah says ahabb, it's comparative. It's
a comparative word. It's ahabb, it's
it's more beloved. It's not saying that
you can't love your wives. In fact, the
Quran says you should or that Allah will
put that love in your heart. But, so so
long as that love is subdued and is
below the love that you have for Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala and jihad for his
struggling in his way.
The greatest love should be for Allah.
And can the red help you deal with
thirst as a man? Yes. If if you're in a
position where you know you need to
pull your you know, your attention back
from from your wife because there's been
disrespect or expectations not met. Can
you not focus more on your relationship
with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala rather
than being like, "Oh, but but baby, I
just need some of your your intimacy." I
mean, it's to me it's it all makes
sense. It does. I think it's tricky for
young men who've been around in Okay, so
let's say Muslims in the West who've
been around this blue pill conditioning
and perhaps have very skewed ideas of
what relationships should be. I think
they need to very consciously study
intersexual dynamics and be very clear
on what they want in a relationship and
also what they're going to give.
Because if you get married young with
that blue pill conditioning in your mind
uh that's a tricky one. That's a and and
and I'd say to all all the Muslims out
there who are getting married, the the
Muslim men who are getting married early
really
pay attention to the guidance
about relationships within our faith
because it is there. See superior to the
blue pill or to the red pill is the
green pill if if we can conceptualize it
as such.
Modeling your relationships after the
prophet alayhi wasallam.
But, also I would say to a lot of the
men in the West, if you have perhaps
been infected by this blue pill
conditioning which Most A lot of them
have. Yeah, what say it's in it's in
music, it's in TV, it's everywhere.
Look at red pill to understand where
things can can go wrong, but understand
there's no there's no answers there.
There's only what what you know, the
risks. If you want the answers, again
thankfully our faith has the answers if
you focus on the right areas. Absolutely
and I think that's a really good place
to finish.
Do you want to say something?
Yeah, I was going to say like you're
you're you're going to be doing this
series on the an intellectual take of
Prophet Muhammad's story which you're
going to talk about liberalism,
ideologies, history,
feel philosophy, even gender issues as
he's going to be doing it for the sake
of this series. Yes. Now, we're going to
be going through the Prophet alayhi
wasallam's life.
And we want to take everything like All
angles.
Yeah, yeah. All angles and different
topics.
will be that's something that inshallah
you can look forward to in the Sacred
Spaces Channel. But, it's been a
pleasure. I love it. Honestly, I've I've
learned a lot. I've been in your
presence both of you, masha Allah. It's
been fantastic obviously hearing this
voice and this experience because it's
all well and good looking at studies and
reading books but to hear it from
somebody who's gone through
like as much experience as you have in
in what you have
had experience in is very refreshing
honestly. And people love that. People
love that. And and we're here for you
anything you need at your service. And I
just want to say may Allah preserve you,
protect you, grant you and your family
the best in this life and the best in
the afterlife. I'm truly honored, man.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Thank you very
much. Appreciate it, guys. And on that
note, guys, make sure that you like and
subscribe. Assalamualaikum
warahmatullahi wabarakatuh.